---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Event Extraction via Dynamic Multi-Pooling Convolutional Neural Networks
categories: Mobility
---

Chen Y, Xu L, Liu K, et al. Event extraction via dynamic multi-pooling convolutional neural networks[C]//Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers). 2015, 1: 167-176.

## Motivatioin

Traditional approaches to the task of ACE event extraction primarily rely on elabo- rately designed features and complicated natural language processing (NLP) tools. These traditional approaches lack gener- alization, take a large amount of human effort and are prone to error propaga- tion and data sparsity problems.

## Proposed method

This paper proposes a novel event-extraction method, which aims to automatically ex- tract lexical-level and sentence-level fea- tures without using complicated NLP tools. We introduce a word-representation model to capture meaningful semantic reg- ularities for words and adopt a framework based on a convolutional neural network (CNN) to capture sentence-level clues. However, CNN can only capture the most important information in a sentence and may miss valuable facts when considering multiple-event sentences. We propose a dynamic multi-pooling convolutional neu- ral network (DMCNN), which uses a dy- namic multi-pooling layer according to event triggers and arguments, to reserve more crucial information. The experimen- tal results show that our approach signif- icantly outperforms other state-of-the-art methods.

## Event Extraction Task

In this paper, we focus on the event extraction task defined in Automatic Content Extraction1 (ACE) evaluation, where an event is defined as a specific occurrence involving participants. First, we in- troduce some ACE terminology to understand this task more easily:

• Event mention: a phrase or sentence within which an event is described, including a trigger and arguments.

• Event trigger: the main word that most clearly expresses the occurrence of an event (An ACE event trigger is typically a verb or a noun).

• Event argument: an entity mention, temporal expression or value (e.g. Job-Title) that is involved in an event (viz., participants).

• Argument role: the relationship between an argument to the event in which it participates.
