---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Do people value bicycle sharing? A multilevel longitudinal analysis capturing the impact of bicycle sharing on residential sales in Montreal, Canada
categories: Mobility
---

El-Geneidy A, van Lierop D, Wasfi R. Do people value bicycle sharing? A multilevel longitudinal analysis capturing the impact of bicycle sharing on residential sales in Montreal, Canada[J]. Transport Policy, 2016, 51: 174-181.

## Motivation

Many studies have aimed to assess the impacts of major transportation investments, such as freeways expansions and light rail presence on property value. Yet, few studies have attempted to understand the impact of active transportation investments on housing prices. 

## Research question

This study attempts to understand the relationship between a new bicycle sharing system and home sale prices in Montreal, Canada.

## Data and methodology 

the present study uses a hedonic regression analysis based on a sample of repeated housing sales in Montreal, Canada, to explore the factors influencing the sale prices in the region.

this study includes Walk Score data to control for some neighborhood characteristics and local accessibility.

Other control variables are included in the model such as the structural and spatial attributes of properties, and the avail- ability of transportation services.

Data from the Multiple Listings Service (MLS) of Montreal, Canada, is used to generate the hedonic model. In the period be- tween 1996 and 2012 a total of440,965 home sales are recorded in the system. 

## Result

Our results show that the presence of a bicycle sharing system in a neighborhood with 12 stations serving an 800-meter buffer is expected to increase the property value for units in multifamily housing by approximately 2.7 percent.

## Contribution

Policy makers wishing to improve the local urban environment while benefiting from economic gains can work on increasing the availability of bicycle sharing systems as this will likely result in increasing property values, improved neighborhood health, and a more vibrant urban environment.
