---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Content-Aware Point of Interest Recommendation on Location-Based Social Networks
categories: Mobility
---

Gao H, Tang J, Hu X, et al. Content-Aware Point of Interest Recommendation on Location-Based Social Networks[C]//AAAI. 2015: 1721-1727.

## Motivation

The rapid urban expansion has greatly extended the physical boundary of users’ living area and developed a large number of POIs (points of interest). POI recommendation is a task that facilitates users’ urban exploration and helps them filter uninteresting POIs for decision making. While existing work of POI recommendation on location-based social networks (LBSNs) discovers the spatial, temporal, and social patterns of user check-in behavior, the use of content information has not been systematically studied. The various types of content information available on LBSNs could be related to different aspects of a user’s check-in action, providing a unique opportunity for POI recommendation.

## A Content-Aware POI Recommender System

## Result

We model the three types of information under a unified POI recommendation framework with the consideration of their relationship to check-in actions. The experimental results exhibit the significance of content information in explaining user behavior, and demonstrate its power to improve POI recommendation performance on LBSNs.

## Contribution

• Study the relationship between users’ check-in behavior and content information on LBSNs in terms of POI properties, user interests, and sentiment indications.

• Incorporate the three types of content information into a unified framework for POI recommendation on LBSNs.

• Investigate the recommendation effort of each type of content information on a real-world LBSN dataset.
