---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Show Me the Way to Go Home - An Empirical Investigation of Ride-Sharing and Alcohol Related Motor Vehicle Fatalities
categories: Mobility
---

Greenwood B N, Wattal S. Show Me the Way to Go Home: An Empirical Investigation of Ride-Sharing and Alcohol Related Motor Vehicle Fatalities[J]. MIS quarterly, 2017, 41(1): 163-187.

## Motivation

While significant debate has surrounded ride-sharing, limited empirical work has been devoted to uncovering the societal benefits of such services (or the mechanisms which drive these benefits).

## Research question

In this work, we investigate how the entry of ride-sharing services influences the rate of alcohol related motor vehicle fatalities. 

## Results

Results indicate four notable findings.

First, while the entry of Uber X strongly and negatively affects the number of motor vehicle fatalities, limited evidence exists to support previous claims that this occurs with the Uber Black car service as well (indicating that prior claims about the efficacy of ride-sharing, specifically Uber, may have been overstated; Badger 2014)).

Second, results indicate that the time for such effects to manifest is nontrivial (upwards of 9 to 15 months)

Third, results suggest no effect of entry when surge pricing is likely in effect, thereby underscoring the importance of cost considerations.

Fourth, results indicate no negative effect of entry on the rate of non-alcohol related motor vehicle fatalities (suggesting that the potential spike in automobiles on the road is not negatively affecting other drivers). 

## Contribution

Theoretically, these results add interesting nuance to extant understanding of the sharing economy. To the extent that researchers have proposed the sharing economy as a viable alternative to established firms in many markets—for example, AirBnB for hotels (Edelman and Luca 2014) and the crowdfunding of nascent ventures (Burtch et al. 2013)— our results highlight the importance of cost considerations in resolving such market failures. While it is plausible that increased access to services, regardless of cost, would allow consumers to price point differentiate based on their own needs, a preference of consumers toward established pro- viders as costs increase is suggested. Further, to the degree that our results underscore the beneficial effects of ride- sharing services, inasmuch as considerable public welfare losses in the form of motor vehicle fatalities are avoided, this work informs the ongoing policy debate. Finally, this work contributes to the small, but growing, stream of literature discussing both the societal impacts of electronic platforms (Burtch et al. 2013; Chan and Ghose 2014; Greenwood and Agarwal 2016; Seamans and Zhu 2013) as well as the need to conceptualize IT services as a core aspect of the IS field (Alter 2010). To the degree that platforms have been found to both enhance and diminish public welfare, our work con- tributes by drawing a richer picture of the public welfare implications of platform introduction and how these services are driving commerce.