---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Inferring Unmet Demand from Taxi Probe Data
categories: Mobility
---

Afian A, Odoni A, Rus D. Inferring unmet demand from taxi probe data[C]//Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), 2015 IEEE 18th International Conference on. IEEE, 2015: 861-868.

## Motivation

Matching taxi supply with demand is one of the
biggest challenges faced by taxi fleet operators today. One of the reasons why this problem is so hard to solve is because there are no readily available methods to infer unmet taxi demand from data. 

An algorithm that reliably does so would be of enormous value to fleet operators because it could be used to dispatch available taxis to areas where passenger demand greatly exceeds supply. 

## Proposed method

In this paper, we formally define unmet taxi demand and develop a heuristic algorithm to quantify it. We explain how our method improves on traditional approaches and present the theoretical details which underpin our algorithm. Finally, we develop a smartphone application that uses our algorithm together with a live taxi data feed to provide real time recommendations to participating drivers and efficiently route taxis to where they are needed most.

We measure unmet taxi demand by the quantity U, which is
the answer to the question: “How many more taxis are needed in an area to completely satisfy all taxi demand for a given period of time?”

## Contribution

• a survey of current methods and strategies that take a data driven approach to taxi optimization

• a formal definition of unmet taxi demand and an algorithm to estimate it

• a rigorous analysis of the theoretical details which underpin our algorithm

• the development of an online recommendation engine and smartphone application that directs taxi drivers to areas of high unmet demand