---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Combining time-series and textual data for taxi demand prediction in event areas - A deep learning approach
categories: Mobility
---

Rodrigues F, Markou I, Pereira F C. Combining time-series and textual data for taxi demand prediction in event areas: a deep learning approach[J]. Information Fusion, 2019, 49: 120-129.

## Motivation

Accurate time-series forecasting is vital for numerous areas of application such as transportation, energy, fi- nance, economics, etc. However, while modern techniques are able to explore large sets of temporal data to build forecasting models, they typically neglect valuable information that is often available under the form of un- structured text. Although this data is in a radically different format, it often contains contextual explanations for many of the patterns that are observed in the temporal data.

typical approaches focus only on capturing recurrent mobility trends that relate to habitual/routine behaviour [1], and on exploiting short-term corre- lations with recent observation patterns [2,3]. While this type of ap- proaches can be successful for long-term planning applications or for modeling demand in non-eventful areas such as residential neighbor- hoods, in lively and highly dynamic areas that are prone to the occurrence of multiple special events, such as music concerts, sports games, festivals, parades and protests, these approaches fail to accurately model mobility demand [4].

In order to capture the effects of events, one can exploit the vast amount of information that is shared online about what is planned to take place in the city. However, most of this information is typically in the form of unstructured natural-language text. Solving this cross-domain data fusion challenge then becomes key for understanding the mobility demand patterns that are caused by events, and also for addressing the general class of problems where text data from the Web can provide the context for explaining some of the patterns that are ob- served in time-series data. These, not only are quite ubiquitous and cover various research fields, but they are becoming increasingly re- levant as people share more and more information online. Popular examples include the use of text data from online social media to help predict opinion polls [5] and financial time-series (e.g. stock markets [6,7]). 

<font color='red'>none of the previous approaches explore Web data about events, particularly in the form of unstructured text, in order to develop more accurate demand forecasting models.</font>

## Data

a large-scale public dataset of 1.1 billion taxi trips from New York [11] and event data from the Web.

<font color='red'>we make the source code and datasets used in our experiments publicly available, thus setting them as a data fusion benchmark, so that other researchers can build upon our proposed methodology and use it as a baseline for developing other data fusion methods for the domain application considered in this work.</font>

The base dataset for our experiments consists of 1.1 billion taxi trips from New York (January 2009 to June 2016) that were made publicly available by the NYC Taxi & Limousine Commission [11]. Based on this data, we looked at a list of the top venues in NYC [37] and selected the two venues for which more complete event records where available online: the Barclays Center and Terminal 5. Located in Brooklyn, the Barclays Center is modern multi-purpose arena with 18.000 seats that regularly hosts major musical performances and serves as the new home of the NBA’s Brooklyn Nets. On the other hand, the Terminal 5 is a 3- floor venue that regularly hosts concerts with many different audiences and that is located in the heart Manhattan. Given the geographical coordinates of these two venues, we selected all the taxi pickups that took place within a bounding box of ± 0.003 decimal degrees (roughly 500 m) to be our study areas. Fig. 5 shows a map of these areas.

The weather data was obtained from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and corresponds to measurements from a weather station located in the Central Park in NYC.

Regarding the event data, it was extracted automatically from the Web using either screen scrapping techniques or API’s. For the Barclays Center, the event information was scrapped from its official website, since it maintains a very accurate and detailed calendar that allowed us to go back in time and retrieve data for the period matching the taxi demand data. We collected a total of 751 events since its inauguration in late 2012 until June 2016. As for the Terminal 5, we used the Facebook API to extract 315 events for a similar time period. In both cases, the event data includes event title, date, time and description. It is important to note that, in practice, one could easily use one of the many event directories and aggregators available online, such as Eventful.com, Timeout.com, etc. Our choice to rely on these specific ones was to facilitate the retrieval of past events, which is typically not available.



## Related work

### Urban mobility and special events

Urban mobility demand forecasting under special events has long been recognized to be more difficult than under habitual or recurrent conditions [12].

for large-scale events (e.g. World cup, Formula 1 and Olympic games), best practices are already available for authorities to follow in order to manage these events and prepare for them well in advance [13,14]. Unfortunately, these manual approaches do not scale to the vast amount of smaller and medium-sized events that take place on large metropolitan areas on a daily basis.

most of the relevant event information is typically available in the form of unstructured text.