---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Predicting Taxi–Passenger Demand Using Streaming Data
cateogires: Mobility
---

Moreira-Matias L, Gama J, Ferreira M, et al. Predicting taxi–passenger demand using streaming data[J]. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2013, 14(3): 1393-1402.

## Motivation

Informed driving is increasingly becoming a key feature for increasing the sustainability of taxi companies. The sensors that are installed in each vehicle are providing new opportunities for automatically discovering knowledge, which, in return, delivers information for real-time decision making. Intelligent transportation systems for taxi dispatching and for finding time-saving routes are already exploring these sensing data.

A failure in this equilibrium may lead to one of the following two scenarios: Scenario 1, i.e., an excess in vacant vehicles and competition and Scenario 2, i.e., larger waiting times for passengers and lower taxi reliability. However, a question remains open. Is it possible to guarantee that the taxis’ spatial distribution over time will always meet the demand, even when the number of running taxis already does that?

## Changes

ADVANCES in sensor and wireless communications such as Global Positioning System (GPS), Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), and WiFi have provided a new way of communicating with running vehicles while col- lecting relevant information on their status and location.

## Research Gaps

Despite their useful insights, most reported techniques are tested using offline testbeds, discarding some of the main advantages of this type of signal. In other words, they do not provide any live information on the location of a passenger or the best route to pick up a passenger at the current specific date/time (i.e., real-time performance), while the GPS data are mainly a live data stream (i.e., a time-ordered sequence of instances that are produced in real-time [14]).

The stand-choice problem is based on four key variables:

1) the expected revenue for a service over time; 

2) the distance/ cost relation with each stand; 

3) the number of taxis that are already waiting at each stand; 

4) the passenger demand for each stand over time. 

The taxi vehicular network can be a ubiquitous sensor of taxi–passenger demand from where the aforementioned variables can be continuously mined. However, the work described here will just focus on the spatiotemporal complexity of the passenger demand.

## Proposed Model

This paper presents a model for predicting the number of services that will emerge at a given taxi stand.

## Contribution

The major contribution of this paper facing this state of the art is to build predictions on the spatiotemporal distribution of the taxi–passenger demand using streaming data. The existing research presents offline testbeds, whereas the framework that is presented here was tested in an online environment.