---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Driving to safety - How many miles of driving would it take to demonstrate autonomous vehicle reliability?
categories: Mobility
---

Kalra N, Paddock S M. Driving to safety: How many miles of driving would it take to demonstrate autonomous vehicle reliability?[J]. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice, 2016, 94: 182-193.

## Motivation

How safe are autonomous vehicles? The answer is critical for determining how autono- mous vehicles may shape motor vehicle safety and public health, and for developing sound policies to govern their deployment.

## Research question

How safe should autonomous vehicles be before they are allowed on the road for consumer use? For the answer to be mean- ingful, however, one must also be able to address a second concern: How safe are autonomous vehicles?

In this report, we answer the next logical question: How many miles would be enough? In particular, we first ask:

1. How many miles would autonomous vehicles have to be driven without failure to demonstrate that their failure rate is below some benchmark? This provides a lower bound on the miles that are needed.

However, autonomous vehicles will not be perfect and failures will occur. Given imperfect performance, we next ask:

2. How many miles would autonomous vehicles have to be driven to demonstrate their failure rate to a particular degree of precision?

3. How many miles would autonomous vehicles have to be driven to demonstrate that their failure rate is statistically significantly lower than the human driver failure rate?

## Model

In this paper, we calculate the number of miles of driving that would be needed to provide clear statistical evidence of autonomous vehicle safety

1. How many miles would autonomous vehicles have to be driven without failure to demonstrate that their failure rate is below some benchmark? 

To demonstrate that fully autonomous vehicles have a fatality rate of 1.09 fatalities per 100 million miles
(R = 99.9999989%) with a C= 95% confidence level, the vehicles would have to be driven 275 million failure-free miles. With a fleet of 100 autonomous vehicles being test-driven 24 h a day, 365 days a year at an average speed of 25 miles per hour, this would take about 12.5 years.

This analysis shows that for fatalities it is not possible to test-drive autonomous vehicles to demonstrate their safety to
any plausible standard, even if we assume perfect performance. In contrast, one could demonstrate injury and crash reliability to acceptable standards based on driving vehicles a few million miles. However, it is important to recognize that this is a theoretical lower bound, based on perfect performance of vehicles. In reality, autonomous vehicles will have fail- ures—not only commonly occurring injuries and crashes in which autonomous vehicles have already been involved, but also fatalities. Our second and third questions quantify the miles needed to demonstrate reliability through driving given this reality.

2. How many miles would autonomous vehicles have to be driven to demonstrate their failure rate to a particular degree of precision?

We can demonstrate this as follows. Given some initial data on its safety performance, suppose we assume that a fully autonomous vehicle fleet had a true fatality rate of 1.09 per 100 million miles. We could use this information to determine the sample size (number of miles) required to estimate the fatality rate of the fleet to within 20% of the assumed rate using a 95% CI. This is approximately 8.8 billion miles. With a fleet of 100 autonomous vehicles being test-driven 24 h a day, 365 days a year at an average speed of 25 miles per hour, this would take about 400 years.

These results show that it may be impossible to demonstrate the reliability of high-performing autonomous vehicles (i.e.,
ones with failure rates comparable to or better than human failure rates) to any reasonable degree of precision. For instance, even if the safety of autonomous vehicles is low—hundreds of failures per 100 million miles, which is akin to human-driven injury and crash rates—demonstrating this would take tens or even hundreds of millions of miles, depending on the desired precision. For low failure rates—1 per 100 million miles, which is akin to the human-driven fatality rate—demonstrating per- formance to any degree of precision is impossible—requiring billions to hundreds of billions of miles. These results show that as autonomous vehicles perform better, it becomes harder—if not impossible—to assess their performance with accuracy because of the extreme rarity of failure events.

3. How many miles would autonomous vehicles have to be driven to demonstrate that their failure rate is statistically significantly lower than the human driver failure rate?

It would take approximately 5 billion miles to demonstrate this difference. With a fleet of 100 autonomous vehicles test- driven 24 h a day, 365 days a year at an average speed of 25 miles per hour, this would take about 225 years.


Yet even these results are optimistic. We have intentionally framed this analysis to calculate the fewest number of miles
that would need to be driven to demonstrate statistically significant differences between autonomous vehicles and human drivers. First, developers are likely to improve autonomous vehicles as testing reveals shortcomings of the technology. The performance of the vehicle will change between the start and the end of a multiyear testing time frame, hopefully for the better. However, this may mean that still more miles are required to prove safety because the technology will have changed.

Second, recall that we treat H as a known benchmark against which we can do a one-sample test. Yet H is not a known benchmark for three key reasons. First, the performance of human drivers in 2013 or any particular year is not the bench- mark of concern. The concern is whether autonomous vehicle performance is better than human driver performance, and a single year’s failure data is only an estimate of the true rate of human driver failures. Second, injuries and crashes are sig- nificantly underreported and there is conflicting evidence about the rate of underreporting. Experiments in which injuries and crashes are accurately recorded could yield different rates. Third, human driver performance is changing. Motor vehicle fatality rates have fallen in the past several decades. In 1994, there were 1.73 fatalities per 100 million miles compared with 1.09 fatalities per 100 million miles in 2013 (Bureau of Transportation Statistics, 2015). Much of the decline can be attributed to improvements in vehicle designs (Farmer and Lund, 2015), which could continue. Thus, the benchmark of human driver performance is a moving target. So, if we compare the performance of human drivers against autonomous vehicles in some time frame, there is uncertainty about whether the comparison would hold moving into the future. For all of these reasons, it would be appropriate to treat H as uncertain and use a two-sample hypothesis test, which would require even more failures to be observed and miles to be driven. This suggests it is not possible to drive our way to answers to one of the most impor- tant policy questions about autonomous vehicles: Are they safer than human drivers?



## Result

we show that fully autonomous vehicles would have to be driven hundreds of millions of miles and sometimes hundreds of billions of miles to demonstrate their reliability in terms of fatalities and injuries

## Contribution

These findings demonstrate that developers of this technology and third-party testers cannot simply drive their way to safety. Instead, they will need to develop innovative methods of demonstrat- ing safety and reliability. And yet, the possibility remains that it will not be possible to establish with certainty the safety of autonomous vehicles. Uncertainty will remain. Therefore, it is imperative that autonomous vehicle regulations are adaptive—designed from the outset to evolve with the technology so that society can better harness the ben- efits and manage the risks of these rapidly evolving and potentially transformative technologies.
Ó