---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Building Chinese Event Type Paradigm Based on Trigger Clustering
categories: Mobility
---

Ding X, Qin B, Liu T. Building chinese event type paradigm based on trigger clustering[C]//Proceedings of the Sixth International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing. 2013: 311-319.

## Motivation

Traditional Event Extraction mainly focuses on event type identification and event partici- pants extraction based on pre-specified event type annotations. However, different domains have different event type paradigms. When transferring to a new domain, we have to build a new event type paradigm. It is a costly task to discover and annotate event types manually.

## Proposed method

To address this problem, this paper proposes a novel approach of building an event type para- digm by clustering event triggers. Based on the trigger clusters, the event type paradigm can be built automatically. Experimental re- sults on three different corpora – ACE (small, homogeneous, open corpus), Financial News and Musical News (large scale, specific do- main, web corpus) indicate that our method can effectively build an event type paradigm and can be easily adapted to new domains.

Our approach involves three steps: 

1) we introduce a trigger extraction algorithm based on the de- pendency syntactic structure; 

2) a trigger filter is then constructed to remove some noisy candidate triggers; 

3) we develop an event type discovery algorithm based on our proposed trigger clustering methods. The clustered event types are used to construct an event type paradigm

### 2.1 Trigger Extractor

### 2.2 Trigger Filter

### 2.3 Trigger Clustering and Event Type Paradigm Building

## Contribution

1. In this paper, we put forward the problem of event type paradigm building, and develop a novel framework as the solution.

2. This paper exploits a series of novel algorithms for automatically discovering and clustering domain independent event types.
