---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】
categories: Mobility
---

Latukha M, Nintuona Soyiri J. Determinants of Talent Mobility in Africa: Talent Attraction and Retention Practices in Ghana[J]. 2018.

## Motivation

Due to existing globalization processes, African countries need to have more extensive economic growth and development to be better
integrated to the global environment. Knowledge transfer from developed to developing countries can be considered as essential tools, whereas talents from expatriates may serve as knowledge acquisition and assimilation mechanism (Artuc et al.2015).Other researchers including (Allan,2015;Bimbassis,2012) have all expressed their conviction that an inflow of skilled expatriates into Africa is necessary to enhance Africa’s economic growth. This is very necessary for example to enable many African countries tap into their diverse natural resources, promote economic growth and reverse the position of Africa from being the second largest continent, but the poorest in the world.(Bimbassis,2012)

## Research work

The paper investigates the determinants of talent mobility in Africa and the role of talent management (TM) practices in talent mobility to Ghana, paying special attention to the determinants of talent mobility in African countries aiming to enhance more extensive economic development by knowledge transfer by expatriates from developed countries. A survey will be conducted on 250 -300 expatriates and 50 CEOs and 20 TM consultants already working in Ghana. We expect the results to confirm that with an efficient TM system supported by the government, firms in Ghana can convert expatriates to migrants to enhance expatriate knowledge transfer into Africa, particularly Ghana.

## Research goal

the research goal is to define the factors that influence talent migration to Ghana and to investigate the role of
talent management practices in attracting and retaining expatriates in Ghana. 

Specifically, how talent management practices should be developed and implemented to be able to convert “expatriates to migrants” for efficient knowledge transfer to Ghana? 

## Research question

1. What are the determinants of expatriate talent mobility from developed countries to Africa, particularly to Ghana?
2. What talent management practices can be used in Ghana context to attract and retain expatriates and stimulate knowledge transfer from developed countries?
3. How can Ghana use talent management practices to neutralize the negative perception of Ghana as a destination country for expatriates and covert them to migrants?

## Exploring the global mobility phenomenon

Global mobility which is defined by some scholars as the movement of both skilled and unskilled people locally and internationally (Altbach & Bassett, 2004) is a phenomenon that is now being strategically exploited and managed by stake holders as a developmental tool.

## Useful information

The role of global migration in expatriate knowledge transfer is so strategic because it serves as a supply base from which expatriates who are generally known as mechanisms for knowledge transfer are distributed to both developed and developing countries. (Cascio and Aguinis 2007) have noted that the successful MNE of the future will be required to source human and intellectual resources regardless of their global location, owing to the increasing competition.