---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Incorporating Ethical Considerations Into Automated Vehicle Control
categories: Mobility
---

Thornton S M, Pan S, Erlien S M, et al. Incorporating ethical considerations into automated vehicle control[J]. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2017, 18(6): 1429-1439.

## Motivation

Not only do automated vehicles need to meet specifications for technical performance, they also need to satisfy the societal expectations for behavior in traffic with humans. Societal expectations, such as accident avoidance and adherence to traffic laws, have their foundation in core moral issues found in philosophy and ethics. Engineers designing control algorithms for automated vehicles can benefit from applying principles and frameworks from philosophy to drive design decisions.

## Research Question

Our ultimate goal is to use ethical principles to make engineering decisions that result in reasonable, justifiable automated vehicle behavior. 

To the knowledge of the authors, this is the first quantitative and in-vehicle experimental endeavor to incorporate ethics in the design of autonomous vehicle control. 

## Model

### Scenario

we construct a simple, realistic driving scenario that involves a variety of factors, including collision avoidance, mobility considerations and traffic laws.

The scope of engineering decisions that must be determined does not merely lie in the type of action to take; the degree of the action needs to be assessed too.

### Philosophical frameworks

Deontology is one of the major normative ethical theories. Deontological ethics follow a set of rules that determine the correct, ethical action, and these rules are to be followed with no exception. Isaac Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics [21] are an example of deontological ethics

Deontology provides one type of motivating structure for the programming of automated vehicle algorithms: rules that can be defined and followed on the road.

A key feature of a deontological framework is that rules can be hierarchical, thus setting clear priorities.

Another central normative ethical theory is consequentialism, which evaluates the moral validity of actions solely based on their consequences. We focus on a form of consequen- tialism known as utilitarianism, which analyzes the expected utility of a scenario and evaluates the consequences of actions based on what produces the most good [22]. The guiding principle is to always achieve the best outcome, i.e., “the ends justify the means.” 

Consequentialism, through its more specific form of utilitarianism, provides a basis for casting ethical decision making as an optimization problem.

This approach also has some limitations, such as the difficulty in actually forming or evaluating the cost function (as is the case with definitions such as “harm” [12]) or making that cost function comprehensive (by, for instance, considering road users other than the occupants in this case).

### Design choices




we use a set of ethical frameworks to map design decisions for a model predictive control problem to philosophical principles. Deontology, a rule-based ethical framework, motivates the development of constraints on the system. Consequentialism, a cost-based ethical framework, motivates the construction of the objective function. The choice of weights is guided by the concepts of virtue ethics and role morality to determine behavior for different types of vehicles. 