---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Preventing traffic accidents with in-vehicle decision support systems - The impact of accident hotspot warnings on driver behaviour
categories: Mobility
---

Ryder B, Gahr B, Egolf P, et al. Preventing traffic accidents with in-vehicle decision support systems-The impact of accident hotspot warnings on driver behaviour[J]. Decision support systems, 2017, 99: 64-74.

## Motivation

Despite continuous investment in road and vehicle safety, as well as improvements in technology standards, the total amount of road traffic accidents has been increasing over the last decades. Consequently, identi- fying ways of effectively reducing the frequency and severity of traffic accidents is of utmost importance. In light of the depicted challenge, latest studies provide promising evidence that in-vehicle decision sup- port systems (DSSs) can have significant positive effects on driving behaviour and collision avoidance.

Going beyond existing research, we developed a comprehensive in-vehicle DSS, which provides accident hotspot warnings to drivers based on location analytics applied to a national historical accident dataset, composed of over 266,000 accidents. 

## Contribution

The contribution of the paper can be summarised as follows:

1. The in-vehicle DSS that we developed is, to the best of our knowledge, the first of its kind, i.e. incorporating automati- cally generated accident hotspot warnings as an alternative to human selected locations or up-coming collision warnings.

2. The system is one of the first in-vehicle warning systems to be tested in real world conditions across a longitudinal field study, providing evidence of an improvement on driver behaviour over time.

3. Due to the integration ofcommonly collected accident location details, the proposed DSS can be easily extended to other parts of the world where such data are compiled, either at a regional or national level.
