---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】A Survey of event extraction methods from text for decision support systems
categories: Mobility
---

Hogenboom F, Frasincar F, Kaymak U, et al. A survey of event extraction methods from text for decision support systems[J]. Decision Support Systems, 2016, 85: 12-22.

## Motivation

Event extraction, a specialized stream of information extraction rooted back into the 1980s, has greatly gained in popularity due to the advent of big data and the developments in the related fields of text mining and natural language processing. However, up to this date, an overview of this particular field remains elusive. 

## Proposed method

Therefore, we give a summarization of event extraction techniques for textual data, distinguishing between **data-driven, knowledge-driven, and hybrid methods**, and present a qualitative evaluation of these. Moreover, we discuss common decision support applications of event extraction from text corpora. Last, we elaborate on the evaluation of event extraction systems and identify current research issues. 

## Data-driven event extraction

## Knowledge-driven event extraction

## Hybrid event extraction

## Research issues

1) the context-based advantage of data-driven, knowledge- driven, or hybrid approaches, 

2) understanding the limitations of specific event extraction techniques, 

3) the domain-dependency of event extraction procedures, affecting both their flexibility and effectiveness, 

4) the scalability of event extraction approaches when dealing with big data,

5) the complexity of extracted events.



## Some useful information

Since the early 2000s, there has been a notable shift from general information extraction from digital collections – extracting basic named entities like persons and orga- nizations – toward more advanced forms of text mining, including Event Extraction (EE) that requires the handling of textual content or data describing complex relations between entities [6]. 



