---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Predicting Taxi Demand at High Spatial Resolution - Approaching the Limit of Predictability
categories: Mobility
---

Zhao K, Khryashchev D, Freire J, et al. Predicting taxi demand at high spatial resolution: approaching the limit of predictability[C]//Big Data (Big Data), 2016 IEEE International Conference on. IEEE, 2016: 833-842.

## Motivation

In big cities, taxi service is imbalanced [1]. While in some
areas passengers experience long waits for a taxi, in others, many taxis roam without passengers. This imbalance leads to profit loss for taxi companies, since vehicles are vacant even when there is demand. Besides, it reduces the level of the passenger satisfaction due to long wait times. The ability to predict taxi demand can help address the taxi-service imbal- ance problem. Knowledge of where a taxi should be traveling can bring benefits to both taxi drivers and companies: taxi drivers can drive to high taxi demand areas, and taxi companies (e.g, Uber) may re-allocate their vehicles in advance to meet the passenger demand. 

## Research question

1. Given a predictive algorithm α, considering both the randomness and temporal correlation of the taxi demand sequence, what is the upper bound of the potential accuracy that a predictive algorithm α can reach? 

2. Given an upper bound of potential accuracy, which predictor has a better performance given the trade-off between the computation time and the accuracy?

## Proposed method

A. Markov Predictor

B. Lempel-Ziv-Welch (LZW) predictor

C. Neural Network Predictor

## Contribution

• We measure the theoretical maximum predictability of the taxi demand for each building block in NYC. This represents the upper bound of the potential accuracy that a predictive algorithm α can reach. We show that the maximum predictability of the taxi demand can reach up to 83% on average. The maximum predictability captures the degree of the temporal correlation of the taxi demand sequence. Our findings indicate that taxi demand in NYC has a strong temporal patterns.

• We implement and compare the prediction accuracy of three predictors: the Markov predictor (a probability- based method) [12], the Lempel-Ziv-Welch (LZW) pre- dictor (a sequence-based method) [13], and the Neu- ral Network (NN) predictor (a machine learning-based method) [7]. We observe that the NN predictor provides better accuracy for building blocks with low predictabil- ity, and the Markov predictor provides better accuracy for building blocks with high predictability. Our findings indicate that the maximum predictability is an approach- able target for actual prediction accuracy and a compute- intensive NN predictor with multiple features does not always outperform a simpler Markov predictor.

• We show that knowledge of the predictability at each building block can help determine which predictor to use, while taking accuracy and computational cost into consideration. Most of the previous research does not consider the heterogeneity of the predictability in dif- ferent regions and uniformly applies the same prediction method, and this can lead to inefficiencies. For example, a Markov-based predictor is four orders of magnitude faster (with only 0.03% computation time) than a computing- intensive NN predictor.
The