---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Tracking geographical locations using a geo-aware topic model for analyzing social media data
categories: Mobility
---

Lozano M G, Schreiber J, Brynielsson J. Tracking geographical locations using a geo-aware topic model for analyzing social media data[J]. Decision Support Systems, 2017, 99: 18-29.

## Motivation

Tracking how discussion topics evolve in social media and where these topics are discussed geographically over time has the potential to provide useful information for many different purposes. In crisis management, knowing a specific topic’s current geographical location could provide vital information to where, or even which, resources should be allocated.

Topic models can track trends in a real-time, online fashion where the term “trend” is defined to mean distinct temporal changes that a topic experiences. It does not necessarily indicate popularity, but rather topic evolution. Trend detection and tracking is a very valuable capacity to decision-makers, because it can suggest how to best allocate limited resources.

## Research Goal

The study presented herein has served to design and evaluate a model for tracking online discussions with regard to geographic correlation over time. Textual-based geographical locations are ambiguous and therefore inherently contextual, and context is also difficult to model since texts can have complex semantics. The challenge is therefore not only to recognize places, but also to disambiguate them while in the presence of words related to a complex configuration of topics.

## 2. Background

### 2.1 Geographical awareness

Geographic location extraction in text

### 2.2 Topic modeling

Topic models and LDA

## 3. Proposed Methodology

### 3.1 Tweet collection

Twitter provides access to its documents (tweets) by means of the Twitter API [39].

### 3.2 Preprocessing

### 3.3 SLDA

### 3.4 Evaluation Types

## Result

A distributed geo-aware streaming latent Dirichlet allocation model was devel- oped for the purpose of recognizing topics’ locations in unstructured text. To evaluate the model it has been implemented and used for automatic discovery and geographical tracking of election topics during parts of the 2016 American presidential primary elections. It was shown that the locations correlated with the actual election locations, and that the model provides a better geolocation classification compared to using a keyword-based approach.