---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Traffic Management for Planned Special Events Using Traffic Microsimulation Modeling and Tabletop Exercises
categories: Mobility
---

Wojtowicz J, Wallace W A. Traffic management for planned special events using traffic microsimulation modeling and tabletop exercises[J]. Journal of Transportation Safety & Security, 2010, 2(2): 102-121.

## Proposed method

This article describes the use of microsimulation for traffic management of special events, including evacuations and traffic incidents. 

Specifically, the research employed tabletop exercises using the microsimulation software TransModeler to present traffic management alternatives for special events to stakeholders. 

The exercises involved analysis of evacuation or egress conditions with current traffic management plans, review of possible high-impact incident scenarios, and testing and formulation of improvements to current traffic management procedures, including incident response. 

Two case studies were developed for the tabletop exercises; one the evacuation of a minor-league baseball stadium and another concerned with vehicular egress plans for a large urban indoor arena. Both venues were in New York State’s Capital District region. The results demonstrated that the real-time use ofmicrosimulation during a tabletop exercise elicited many new traffic management strategies. Also, a cost–benefit analysis of using microsimulation models in conjunction with tabletop exercises for these types of events was explored. The project was made possible by funding from the New York State Department ofTransportation and the Federal Highway Administration.
Keywords