---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Comparative international human resource management - Future research directions
categories: Mobility
---

Al Ariss A, Sidani Y. Comparative international human resource management: Future research directions[J]. Human Resource Management Review, 2016, 26(4): 352-358.

## Motivation

There are numerous under-researched topics that fall under the umbrella of comparative international human resource management (IHRM) theory and practice. We address three in particular: **talent management (TM), international mobility, and diversity.** The degree of convergence of HR practices with Western-style so-called “best practices” is a topic of much dispute. We argue that sociocultural and institutional factors are critical determinants of HR practices, and we underscore the importance of the sociocultural context in IHRM. The reality unfolding is that of multiple factors, not exclusive to international best practices, playing a role in the development of HR practices in various international contexts.

## Convergence, divergence, and crossvergence theories

The convergence perspective posits that as societies become more similar to one another in terms of industrialization and the
use of technology, values will eventually converge towards Western capitalism given that this is where most industrialization has traditionally occurred (Ralston, 2008). 

Earlier research in cross-cultural theory (Hofstede, Hofstede, & Minkov, 1991; House, Hanges, Javidan, Dorfman, & Gupta, 2004), and the ongoing search for cross-cultural variations in value structures (e.g., Schwartz & Bilsky, 1990) strongly indicate that–despite technological advancements, globalization forces, and the growing powers of MNCs–people from different cultural and geographical contexts are not the same and HR systems dealing with them are not, and need not be, the same. The established scholarship in international business (IB) about localization strategies, for example, suggests that companies are aware of the need to establish varying competitive strategies to fit different contexts and consumer tastes and behaviors. For in- ternal customers–the employees of the firm, one can assume that the same logic applies.

The crossvergence perspective, as far as HR practices are concerned, has been under-studied in HR scholarship. It promotes a
‘best fit’ approach to IHRM. Earlier HR research hints at crossvergence in certain circumstances. Sidani and Al Ariss (2014),for example, suggest that MNCs operate in such a way that certain practices converge (given their global usage) while other practices diverge (given local contexts), thus offering a crossvergence perspective. 

## Talent management and IHRM

The numerous definitions ascribed to the term talent management (TM) highlight the progress that has been made in the field of modern HR. In this section, we build on the recent literature review proposed by Al Ariss, Cascio, and Paauwe (2014). 

Initially, the essence of TM was often conceived of as recruitment of the highest calibre of individuals, notably at managerial level, and identification of the particular qualities that distinguish a successful manager. 

Two different conceptions of TM are acknowledged: exclusive and inclusive. The former focuses exclusively on a top elite of employees, while the latter applies to all employees. In terms of IHRM, globalization has prompted the development of a more internationally focused understanding of TM, known as global talent management (GTM). 

GTM is interpreted by Vaiman, Scullion, and Collings (2012) as comprising the various means by which an organization achieves the attraction, selection, development, and retention of top talent in the highest global positions. Each company's particular set of circumstances requires uniquely appropriate TM practices. The identification of core precepts of GTM was attempted by Stahl et al. (2012) for organizations to adopt and implement in attaining optimal performance. They find that companies would do well to design their TM strategies based on their own company values and objectives rather than seek to replicate successful TM practices used by other organizations. Therefore GTM is best guided by a “best fit” approach, rather than that of “best practice”.

Schuler, Jackson, and Tarique (2011) and Vaiman et al. (2012) identify several factors and forces that impact the TM process. We argue that the configuration of those forces and how they impact companies in different national contexts will yield TM practices that vary. For example, talent shortages internationally necessitate that companies look at talent, not only from a national perspective, but also from a global one. While the impact of talent shortages means that companies will converge on their need to manage global talent, it does not necessitate that they converge on how such talent is attracted or retained. Some MNCs short of talent will emphasize grooming internal talent; others would rather adopt competitive strategies to attract external ones.

## International migration and IHRM

International migration has been on the rise over the last half century. Such global movement is attributed mainly to demo-
graphic changes, lack of skilled workers globally, globalization of the economy and job market, and easier access across geographic as well as institutional and cultural borders (Howe-Walsh & Schyns, 2010). 

## Diversity and IHRM

Divergence of HR practices is influenced, as per the lens of institutional theory, to different degrees by the pressures imposed
by the powers that be. Laws and regulations enforced by these powers will coerce an organization to toe a particular line as far as its HR practices are concerned. 

