---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Uncovering cabdrivers’ behavior patterns from their digital traces
categories: Mobility
---

Liu L, Andris C, Ratti C. Uncovering cabdrivers’ behavior patterns from their digital traces[J]. Computers, Environment and Urban Systems, 2010, 34(6): 541-548.

## Motivation

Recognizing high-level human behavior and decisions from their digital traces are critical issues in per- vasive computing systems.

## Research question

What features of this very large database will lead to uncovering top drivers’ strategy? How do these successful drivers optimize over the bounded resources of space and time? Or are these drivers profiting by deliberately choosing routes that are more costly for the customer, as every out-of-towner fears when stepping into a taxicab in an unfamiliar city?

## Proposed method

In this paper, we develop a novel methodology to reveal cabdrivers’ operation patterns by analyzing their continuous digital traces. For the first time, we systematically study large scale cabdrivers’ behavior in a real and complex city context through their daily digital traces. We identify a set of valuable features, which are simple and effective to classify cabdrivers, delineate cabdrivers’ oper- ation patterns and compare the different cabdrivers’ behavior. The methodology and steps could spatially and temporally quantify, visualize, and examine different cabdrivers’ operation patterns. Drivers were categorized into top drivers and ordinary drivers by their daily income. We use the daily operations of 3000 cabdrivers in over 48 million of trips and 240 million kilometers to uncover: 

(1) spatial selection behavior, 

(2) context-aware spatio-temporal operation behavior, 

(3) route choice behavior, and 

(4) operation tactics. 

Though we focused on cabdriver operation patterns analysis from their digital traces, the methodology is a general empirical and analytical methodology for any GPS-like trace analysis. Our work demonstrates the great potential to utilize the massive pervasive data sets to understand human behavior and high-level intelligence.

### Data

3000 cabdrivers, who take a total of 48 million trips covering 240 million kilometers for one year in Shenzhen, South China

## Contribution

(1) For the first time, we systematically study large scale cabdrivers’ behavior in a real and complex city context (3000 taxis in a metropolitan area) through their daily digi- tal traces. We identify a set of valuable features, which are simple and effective to classify cabdrivers, delineate cabdrivers’ operation patterns and compare the different cabdrivers’ behavior.

(2) We develop a novel methodology and steps to spatially and temporally quantify, visualize, and examine cabdrivers’ operation patterns. Drivers are categorized into top drivers and ordinary drivers by their daily income. We use the daily operations of 3000 cabdrivers in over 48 million of trips and 240 million kilometers to uncover the differences between top drivers and ordinary drivers: (1) spatial selection behavior, (2) context-aware spatio-temporal operation behavior, (3) route choice behavior, and (4) operation tactics.

