---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Exploring the impact of shared autonomous vehicles on urban parking demand - An agent-based simulation approach
categories: Mobility
---

Zhang W, Guhathakurta S, Fang J, et al. Exploring the impact of shared autonomous vehicles on urban parking demand: An agent-based simulation approach[J]. Sustainable Cities and Society, 2015, 19: 34-45.

## Motivation

little is known about how SAVs can change urban forms, especially by reducing the demand for parking. This study estimates the potential impact of SAV system on urban parking demand under different system operation scenarios with the help of an agent-based simulation model.

## Model

This simulation is conducted on a 10×10mi grid based hypothetical city. The resolution of the grids, which also represents the street network, is 0.5 mi. The client agents in this model are peo- ple who are willing to use the SAV system. It is assumed that the SAV system has a low penetration rate of 2% within the region. In other words, only 2% of population within the simulated city will use the SAV system instead of private vehicles.

### Model parameters

The client agents in this model are peo- ple who are willing to use the SAV system. 

It is assumed that the SAV system has a low penetration rate of 2% within the region. In other words, only 2% of population within the simulated city will use the SAV system instead of private vehicles.

SAVs are assigned by the vehicle–client match center to serve clients.

### Model specifications and implementation 

1. Client agents and vehicle trip generation

    Trip departure time and length assignment

    Trip destination assignment

2. SAV fleet size and operation rules
3. SAV–client match center



## Result

The simulation results indicate that we may be able to eliminate up to 90% of parking demand for clients who adopt the system, at a low market penetration rate of2%. The results also suggest that different SAV operation strategies and client’s preferences may lead to different spatial distribution of urban parking demand.

### 5.1 Impact ofSAV fleet size on urban parking demand

the total daily parking demand is positively correlated with SAV fleet size. The results show that adding another 50 vehicles into the system is likely to increase the urban parking demand by approximately 150 and the increase is
quite constant. 

after adding more vehicles in the system, the average daily parking demand per serving SAV will decrease.

the average wait times for SAVs improve significantly withmore vehicles in the system but the gains become smaller as the numbers get larger.

The simulation results also indicate that the parking demand
is higher in the center of the simulated area.

### 5.2. Impact ofride-sharing and client’s preference on urban parking demand

the total daily parking demand is not sensitive to the level of willingness to share.

Such outcome is heavily influenced by the fact that we always assign the SAVs with the least potential time cost to each customer. In other words, the client-SAV match center may always prioritize an empty SAV for each client to avoid additional detour time costs. Therefore, even if people are willing to share, limited number of trips are linked together given the least travel time cost assignment method.

the most significant reduction of parking demand occurs in the urban fringe area once people start to share rides with others.

### 5.3. Impact ofvehicle cruising on urban parking demand

the SAVs will continue relocating themselves to places where the anticipated number of clients is high while the existing number of SAVs is low.

longer the empty cruising time allowed in the system, lower the parking demand.

The parking demand tends to be more evenly distributed throughout the study area, the longer the vehicle cruise.