---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Vehicle relocation and staff rebalancing in one-way carsharing systems
categories: Mobility
---

Nourinejad M, Zhu S, Bahrami S, et al. Vehicle relocation and staff rebalancing in one-way carsharing systems[J]. Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review, 2015, 81: 98-113.

## Motivation

A solution to the imbalance of vehicles in one-way carsharing systems is vehicle relocation which involves staff members to redistribute the vehicles between stations. Vehicle relocation, however, can lead to an imbalance of staff members between stations. Thus, staff members, themselves, need to be relocated between stations to perform the vehicle relocations.

## Background

CSOs are generally classified as one-way and round-trip systems. Round-trip systems (e.g. Zipcar and Autoshare) require
users to return the rented vehicle to the same station from which it was picked up (Costain et al., 2012). One-way systems (e.g. Car2Go), on the other hand, are flexible about the drop-off station and do not impose any restrictions. According to their definitions, round-trip systems are a special case of one-way systems with drop-off station constraints. This extra constraint can be unappealing to users who have longer activity durations or those who do not need the return trip at all. 

One-way CSOs are further divided into free-floating and station-based (non-free-floating) systems. 

In free-floating systems, users are allowed to park the vehicles at any location of choice but generally within some predetermined boundary whereas in station-based systems users are obliged to park the vehicles at designated parking stations. Despite their many benefits, one-way systems pose some challenges. As users freely move vehicles between stations, an imbalance of vehicles can occur. 

To relieve vehicle imbalance, one-way CSOs relocate vehicles between stations (Kek et al., 2009; Nourinejad and Roorda, 2014), impose parking reservation policies (Kaspi et al., 2014), and balance their station capacities (El Fassi et al., 2012). Among these, vehicle rebalancing is imperative as it entails a trade off between fleet size and staff size. Roughly speak- ing, CSOs with relatively large fleet sizes require few relocation operations and consequently few relocating staff whereas CSOs with smaller fleet sizes require more extensive relocation operations and consequently more staff members to perform them. Alternatively, as the staff are relocating vehicles, an imbalance of staff can also occur. 

## Research question

Hence, three sets of problems are at hand: 

(i) given a database of user reservations, which we assume to be given, what is the required fleet and staff size in order to serve all users with the objective of cost minimization, 

(ii) how should the vehicles be relocated in the network, 

(iii) how should staff be assigned to different vehicle relocation tasks. 

In answering the three proposed questions, this study presents a joint optimization model of vehicle relocation and staff rebalancing. While vehicle relocation has been studied before, staff rebalancing requires further research. Most available models assume that a vehicle can be relocated from any station to any other station regardless of whether a staff member is present to perform the relocation task or not. This oversight of staff members weakens applicability of any model.

## Vehicle relocation 

**In a comprehensive literature review on carsharing systems**

Jorge and Correia (2013) identify vehicle relocation as one of the fundamental strategies for reducing costs in one-way systems. 

Among the first to consider vehicle relocation are Dror et al. (1998) who propose using a fleet of finite capacity tow trucks to redistribute a fleet of electric vehicles. This problem is modeled as a pickup and delivery problem and a mixed integer linear programming formulation is provided. 

Barth and Todd (1999) develop a simulation model with three main components: (i) a stochastic trip generator which produces origin–destination pairs and inter-request times (i.e. time between two requests), (ii) a traffic simulator which takes trip generation inputs and simulates each vehicle in the network according to trip features such as departure time and origin–destination zones, and (iii) a relocation mechanism which can be static, predictive, or exact. Static relocation is based on the immediate relocation need at a station where a request has occurred but no vehicle is available, predictive relocation uses knowledge of expected vehicle demand in the future, and exact relocation assumes that perfect knowledge of future demand is available. Their study shows that vehicle relocation is minimized when there are 18–24 vehicles available for every 100 users. However, it is not clear whether an optimization approach would provide lower operating costs. 

In another simulation-based research, Wang et al. (2010) present a forecast-based relocation model with the following three major components: (i) macroscopic traffic simulation, (ii) forecasting model, and (iii) inventory replenishing model. In the forecasting model an estimate of aggregate origin–destination demand is obtained which is passed on to the inventory replenishing model where relocations are composed. In the inventory replenishment model, stations holding excessive or too few vehicles are labeled overstocked and understocked, respectively. The relocation process involves moving vehicles from overstocked stations to understocked stations. The performance of the model is tested on a real-life case study of a CSO in Singapore with four stations and twelve vehicles per station. While the model shows an improvement in the system’s efficiency, it is questionable whether any improvement would occur in larger CSOs. Moreover, it is possible that a rigorous optimization method would provide even better results. 

**In pursuing lower costs through optimization**

Kek et al. (2009) propose a three phase optimization-trend-simulation decision support system to find a set of near-optimal parameters for vehicle relocation operations in a CSO with flexible return times and return stations. The optimization-trend-simulation method first solves a Mixed Integer Linear Program (MILP) to minimize total operating costs and second uses a heuristic to convert the MILP results into more practical operating parameters such as selection of two relocation thresholds. That is, when the number of vehicles at a station goes below (first threshold) or above (second threshold) some value, then relocation is initiated. The results of optimization-trend-simulation method, compared to current practice, show an improvement of 50% in staff costs and an improvement in zero vehicle time (total duration of vehicle shortage at all station) of 4.6% up to 13.0%. 

Moving up to a higher level of decision making, Correia and Antunes (2012) present an MILP formulation to optimize depot location in a one-way carsharing system while maximizing CSO benefits. Given the strategic level of decision-making, the authors use aggregate inputs such as total origin–destination demand at each time segment and model a time–space network to formulate the problem. Chow and Sayarshad (2014) study the benefit of sharing system in coexistence with other networks such as public transportation. Boyaci et al. (2015) present a model for developing efficient one-way CSOs with an electric fleet. Their proposed model is a multi-objective MILP which considers vehicle relocation and vehicle charging requirements. 

Nourinejad and Roorda (2014) define a finer level of demand by considering each user individually and taking into account their request time (time at which service was requested), departure time (from the origin), and arrival time (at the destina- tion). Their model can be used as both a decision support system to find optimal relocation operations and as a strategic decision-making tool in finding optimal fleet size when the problem is solved many times for numerous user service request patterns. 

Jorge et al. (2013) propose a mathematical programming and a simulation model for vehicle relocation in one-way carsharing systems. The mathematical model maximizes the profitability of the CSO whereas the simulation model applies different real-time relocation policies. This model is applied to a network of CSO stations in Lisbon, Portugal and the results show increased profits through vehicle relocation. 

Cepolina and Farina (2012) present a model for managing eco-sustainable carsharing vehicles in urban areas. They study three systems ofopen access, open-ended reservation, and one way trip reser- vation and develop an optimization problem to minimize the total transport and users costs associated with each system. 

Nourinejad and Roorda (2015) analyze the carsharing vehicle relocation problem for one-way and two-way systems. They conclude that a higher fleet size is required in round-trip systems due to the requirement of returning vehicles to their original pickup locations. 

**The focus of some studies is on system optimization under sources of uncertainty**

Fan et al. (2008) present a multistage stochastic mixed integer model with uncertainties in demand variation. The model has the objective of maximizing revenues and minimizing relocation costs. 

Nair and Miller-Hooks (2011) present a stochastic mixed-integer model to minimize the cost of vehicle relocation under demand uncertainty. By considering probabilistic demand, the model finds optimal relocation operations in a fixed short planning horizon. Relocation in the model is generally triggered when there is a vehicle short- age at a station which would sacrifice demand or if a station has a shortage of parking stalls which would lead to excess user waiting time because users would not have a spot to park the vehicles. 

Alfian et al. (2014) develop a simulation tool based on fuzzy classification aimed at evaluating the performance of 36 different service models with different relocation techniques to find the most profitable while satisfying a minimum required customer level-of-service (measured in terms of reservation acceptance ratio). 

**Others have devised novel solutions to the vehicle imbalance problem**

Correia et al. (2014) present a mathematical programming model that gives users the flexibility to choose from several stations to pick up a vehicle. Moreover, the users can drop off their vehicle to any station within the vicinity of their destination. Compensation is offered to users for this imposed inconvenience. This flexibility allows for better balancing of vehicles between stations. 

Similar pricing mechanisms have been proposed by Di Febbraro et al. (2012) and Waserhole et al. (2013). 

Another strategy presented by Kaspi et al. (2014) allows users to reserve a parking stall at the destination in advance. This strategy, applicable in cases where stations have limited parking stalls, eliminates the possibility of a customer having to wait at a station until an empty parking stall becomes available.

**The vehicle relocation problem in carsharing systems has some similarities with the bike relocation in bike sharing systems**

These relocations can be static or dynamic. Static relocation generally occurs once and during off-peak hours when demand is low whereas dynamic relocation happens multiple times during the day with varying demand for bikes. On static relocation, 

Chemla et al. (2013) present a many to many pickup and delivery problem where a capacitated single vehicle relocates the bikes between stations in order to reach a target number of vehicles at each station. A branch-and-cut algo- rithm is used to solve a relaxation of the problem. 

Dell’Amico et al. (2014) study four different variants of the same pickup and delivery problem for bike relocation and propose branch-and-cut algorithms to solve each. 

Forma et al. (2015) propose a three-step heuristic for repositioning of bikes. In the first step, clusters of bike stations are formed; in the second step, inventory decisions are made for each station of each cluster; and in the third step, repositioning vehicles are routed between stations of each cluster. 

On dynamic relocation, Contardo et al. (2012) and Sayarshad et al. (2012) present two models which take into account the variation of demand throughout the day. 

At a higher level of decision-making, Raviv and Kolka (2013) and Schuijbroek et al. (2013) use inventory target levels to compute the optimal number of bikes at each station. The results of these studies can eventually be used as input for finding the optimal pick and delivery routes for bike relocation. These models are similar to the study of George and Cathy (2011) who propose a closed queuing network model for finding the optimal fleet size at a vehicle rental system. The carsharing industry also has some similarities with the car rental industry. You and Hsieh (2014) present a vehicle relocation model for car rental services with a fixed fleet size and varying demand for a specific number of days. The relocations are performed at the end of each day and the fleet size is assumed to be constant. The authors use a mathematical programming model combined with a genetic algorithm to solve the problem.

**In addition to bikesharing, the carsharing vehicle relocation problem has distinct similarities with the full truckload pickup and delivery problem (Berbeglia et al., 2010)**

The two most commonly used methods of solving the full truckload problem are the network flow maximization and the assignment method. The network flow model, which is sometimes pre- sented as a timespace network, involves optimizing the flow of vehicles (or trucks) to service all or the most profitable requests. In the carsharing context, Kek et al. (2009) and Boyaci et al. (2015) use a similar network flow approach. The assignment model, on the other hand, involves assigning individual vehicles to requests (also known as jobs) with time windows during which a pickup must take place (Wang and Regan, 2002). The presented carsharing model of this paper uses the same assignment approach where users have time windows and vehicles have to be assigned to them.

## Results

This study addresses the joint optimization of vehicle relocation and staff rebalancing using two integrated multi-traveling salesman formulations. Results show that fleet size is more sensitive to demand than staff size, staff size is inversely related to vehicle cost, and that vehicle relocation time increases with vehicle cost.