---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Where to find my next passenger
categories: Mobility
---

Yuan J, Zheng Y, Zhang L, et al. Where to find my next passenger[C]//Proceedings of the 13th international conference on Ubiquitous computing. ACM, 2011: 109-118.

## Motivation

Taxicabs play an important role in people’s commute be- tween public and private transports. A significant number of people are traveling by taxis in their daily lives around the world. According to a recent survey about the taxi service of New York City [7], 41% people take a taxi per week and 25% of the respondents take a taxi everyday. However, on one hand, to facilitate people’s travel, major cities, like New York, Tokyo, London, and Beijing, have a huge number of taxis traversing in urban areas. The vacant taxis cruising on roads not only waste gas and time of a taxi driver but also generate additional traffic in a city. Thus, how to improve the utilization of these taxis and reduce the energy consumption effectively poses an urgent challenge. On the other hand, many people feel frustrated and anxious when they are un- able to find a taxicab after waiting for a long time.

## Proposed method

We present a recommender for taxi drivers and people ex- pecting to take a taxi, using the knowledge of 1) passen- gers’ mobility patterns and 2) taxi drivers’ pick-up behav- iors learned from the GPS trajectories of taxicabs.

First, this recommender provides taxi drivers with some locations and the routes to these locations, towards which they are more likely to pick up passengers quickly (during the routes or at these locations) and maximize the profit. Second, it rec- ommends people with some locations (within a walking dis- tance) where they can easily find vacant taxis. 

In our method, we learn the above knowledge (represented by probabilities) from GPS trajectories of taxis. Then, we feed the knowledge into a probabilistic model which estimates the profit of the candidate locations for a particular driver based on where and when the driver requests for the recommendation.

A). This recommendation helps to reduce the cruising (without a fare) time of a taxi thus saves energy con- sumption and eases the exhaust pollution as well as helps the drivers to make more profit. 

On the other hand, we provide people expecting to take a taxi with the locations (within a walking distance) where they are most likely to find a vacant taxicab, as shown in Figure 1 B). Using our recommender, a taxi will find passengers more quickly and people will take a taxi more easily; therefore, reduces the above-mentioned problem to some extent.

## Contribution

• We propose an approach for accurately detecting parking places from the GPS trajectories of a large number of taxis. These parking places stand for the locations where taxi drivers usually wait for passengers with their taxis parked. From these parking places, we can calculate the probability of picking up a passenger if the driver goes towards a parking place (including the situation that the driver picks up a passenger when cruising), hence, enable the recommender for taxi drivers.

• We devise a probabilistic model to formulate the time- dependent taxi behaviors (pick-up/drop-off/cruising/parking), both on road segments and in parking places, based on which, we build the recommendation solution for taxi driver- s and passengers. We devise a partition-and-group frame- work to learn the citywide statistical knowledge so as to provide just-in-time recommendations with time varying information learned from the historical data.

• We evaluate our method using a large number (12,000 taxis during 110 days) of historical GPS trajectories gen- erated by taxicabs. The evaluation results validate that our method can effectively suggest the taxi drivers with loca- tions towards which the driver can make more profit and save cruising time.