---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Using Structured Events to Predict Stock Price Movement - An Empirical Investigation
categories: Mobility
---

Ding X, Zhang Y, Liu T, et al. Using structured events to predict stock price movement: An empirical investigation[C]//Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). 2014: 1415-1425.

## Motivation

It has been shown that news events influ- ence the trends of stock price movements. However, previous work on news-driven stock market prediction rely on shallow features (such as bags-of-words, named entities and noun phrases), which do not capture structured entity-relation informa- tion, and hence cannot represent complete and exact events. Recent advances in Open Information Extraction (Open IE) techniques enable the extraction of structured events from web-scale data.

previous work represents news documents mainly using simple features, such as bags-of-words, noun phrases, and named entities (Lavrenko et al., 2000; Kogan et al., 2009; Luss and d’Aspremont, 2012; Schumaker and Chen, 2009). With these unstructured features, it is dif- ficult to capture key events embedded in financial news, and even more difficult to model the impact of events on stock market prediction. For exam- ple, representing the event “Apple has sued Sam- sung Electronics for copying ‘the look and feel’ of its iPad tablet and iPhone smartphone.” using term-level features {“Apple”, “sued”, “Samsung”, “Electronics”, “copying”, ...} alone, it can be dif- ficult to accurately predict the stock price move- ments of Apple Inc. and Samsung Inc., respec- tively, as the unstructured terms cannot indicate the actor and object of the event.


## Proposed method

We propose to adapt Open IE technology for event-based stock price movement pre- diction, extracting structured events from large-scale public news without manual efforts. Both linear and nonlinear mod- els are employed to empirically investigate the hidden and complex relationships be- tween events and the stock market. Large- scale experiments show that the accuracy of S&P 500 index prediction is 60%, and that of individual stock prediction can be over 70%. Our event-based system out- performs bags-of-words-based baselines, and previously reported systems trained on S&P 500 stock historical data.

### 2.1 Event Representation

### 2.2 Event Extraction

### 2.3 Event Generalization

### 2.4 Prediction Models

### 2.5 Feature Representation

## Contribution

A main contribution of our work is to extract and use structured events instead of bags-of-words in prediction models.