---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】The Impact of Autonomous Vehicles on Cities - A Review
categories: Mobility
---

Duarte F, Ratti C. The Impact of Autonomous Vehicles on Cities: A Review[J]. Journal of Urban Technology, 2018: 1-16.

Good writing.

## Motivation

AVs have the potential to become a major catalyst for urban transformation.

## Research question

To explore some of these transformations, 

first, we discuss the possibility of decoupling the many functions of urban vehicles from the form factor (without drivers, do cars need to look like they look today?). 

Second, we question whether AVs will lead to more or fewer cars on the roads, highlighting the synergies between AVs and ride- sharing schemes. 

Third, with AVs as part of multimodal and sharing- mobility systems, millions of square kilometers currently used for parking spaces might be liberated, or even change the way we design road space. 

Fourth, freed from the fatigue related to traffic, we question whether AVs would make people search for home locations farther from cities, increasing urban sprawl, or would rather attract more residents to city centers, also freed from congestion and pollution. 

Fifth, depending on responses to the previous questions and innovative traffic algorithms, we ask whether AVs will demand more or less road infrastructure. 

## Will AVs Look Like Cars as We Know Them?

AVs open up the possibility of decoupling the uses of a moving platform from the established shape of a car. 

## More or Fewer Cars on the Road?

As Stanford (2015) shows, this has been the battle between individual and collective modes since the introduction of cars in the early Twentieth Century. Regard- less of how smoothly AVs can negotiate traffic without risks of collision and frequent stops at intersections, the fleet of AVs required to replace a simple subway train would clog urban roads. 

## More or Fewer Parking Spaces? 

Cars are idle 96 percent of their life span, and AVs could have a utilization rate higher than 75 percent (“If Autonomous Vehicles Rule the World,” 2015). 

## More or Less Urban Sprawl?

## More or Less Road Infrastructure?

