---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Leveraging deep learning with LDA-based text analytics to detect automobile insurance fraud
categories: Mobility
---

## Motivation

Automobile insurance fraud represents a pivotal percentage of property insurance companies' costs and affects the companies' pricing strategies and social economic benefits in the long term. Automobile insurance fraud detection has become critically important for reducing the costs of insurance companies.

Previous studies on automobile insurance fraud detection examined various numeric factors, such as the time ofthe claimand the brand ofthe insured car. However, the textual information in the claims has rarely been studied to analyze insurance fraud. 

### Some useful background

Mainly responsible for vari- ous losses due to natural disasters and motor automobile accidents, au- tomobile insurance is a means of transport insurance, including motor automobile damage insurance and motor automobile third-party liability insurance. 

Insurance fraud represents a pivotal percentage of insurance company costs. Insurance fraud not only reduces the insurance company profits, resulting in substantive losses, but also affects the in- surance company's pricing strategy and social economic benefits in the long term.

## Model

This paper proposes a novel deep learning model for automobile insurance fraud detection that uses Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA)-based text analytics.

In our proposed method, LDA is first used to extract the text features hiding in the text descriptions of the accidents appearing in the claims, and deep neural networks then are trained on the data, which include the text features and traditional numeric features for detecting fraudulent claims. Based on the real-world insurance fraud dataset, our experimental results reveal that the proposed text analytics-based framework outperforms a traditional one. 

## Evaluation

### Data

The data used in this paper are real-world data derived from an automobile insurance company, and the fraud label is confirmed by the insurance company's professional department. We ultimately obtain 37,082 available items in the dataset, and each item represents an automobile insurance claim. Overall, there are 415 fraudulent claims and 36,667 non-fraudulent claims. In the dataset, the ratio of fraudulent claims to legitimate claims is close to 88:1, which represents imbalanced data. Imbalanced data may greatly affect the performance of classification algorithms. Therefore, sampling methods are employed to solve the data imbalance problem. Because there is a large difference in the amount of data between the classes of claims, we both undersample legitimate claims (majority class) and oversample fraudulent claims (minority class) to balance the dataset [33,34].We use SMOTE to oversample fraudulent claims and randomly undersample legitimate claims to get the same amount of data from the majority class to form a balanced dataset. Finally, the dataset contains 1660 legitimate claims and 1660 fraudulent claims. 

Each claim consists of16 attributes and 1 fraudulent label that indicate whether the claimis a fraudulent claim. The attributes can be divid- ed into 10 categorical attributes, 5 numeric attributes and 1 text attribute. A description of the data is provided in Table 1,and summary statistics of the numeric data are listed in Table 2. 

### Result
Furthermore, the experimental results show that the deep neural networks outperform widely used machine learning models, such as random forests and support vector machine. Therefore, our proposed framework that combines deep neural networks and LDA is a suitable potential tool for automobile insurance fraud detection.

## Contribution

This paper makes several contributions to the detection of automobile insurance fraud. First, this paper introduces text mining methods to resolve the text description where the experience of human experts is hidden. The experimental results confirm that the text mining method is important for the analysis of fraudulent behaviors. Second, this paper proposes an LDA- and deep learning-based automobile insurance fraud detection model. The experimental results show that our proposed method is effective. The complement of LDA and the deep learning method makes it possible for themodel to characterize the behavior of automobile insurance fraud. Additionally, the topic extraction process of LDA and the abstraction process of DNN can providemore effective topical features, which cannot be supplied by traditional methods.



