---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Location Analytics and Decision Support - Reflections on Recent Avancementa, a Research Framework and the Path Ahead
categories: Mobility
---

Pick J B, Turetken O, Deokar A, et al. Location Analytics and Decision Support: Reflections on Recent Avancementa, a Research Framework and the Path Ahead[J]. Decision Support Systems, 2017, 99.

## Research goal

The goal of this special issue is to present explorations and knowledge enhancement on the cutting edges of decision making involving location and place. 

## 2. Location analytics and decision support: synopsis of extant research

Location analytics (LA) refers to the contemporary concept of using specialized spatial analysis techniques to understand spatial arrangements, patterns, groupings and relationships in geographically referenced phenomena. Methods include overlays, buffers, hot spot analysis, spatial cluster analysis, spatial autocorrelation, proximity poly- gons, spatial econometrics and other techniques.

Non-location analytics (NLA) refers to analytics methods that do not include spatial dimensions, such as non-spatial statistics, forecasting, optimization, sensitivity analysis, multi-criteria evaluation, simulation, and data mining.

### 2.1 The problem areas and research questions Roughly

Roughly half of the studies concern solving problems in **transportation/routing, location siting, and urban issues** (see Table 1). 

Other problems include: 

1) gaining understanding of the cognitive aspects of LA/ NLA/DS, 

2) conceiving conceptual theory and frameworks for LA/NLA/ DS, 

3) designing a geospatial information utility for LA/NLA/DS, 

4) designing spatial decision support for disruption of links in critical national infrastructure, 

5) developing structural theory and testing of locational privacy issues with application to marketing decisions, 

6) predicting small business failures using social media locational data, 

7) developing an integrated predictive model of human mobility and movement intention based on a person's GPS trajectories [7,8,25,32,35,41].

The research questions underpinning these studies mostly concern how to construct LA/NLA/DS models, what are the implications of the results of empirical applications, and what is learned from experimental outcomes.


### 2.2 Methodologies

In the papers that focus on constructing SDSS, methods include optimization techniques such as bi-objective optimization [17], network optimization [30], and capacitated location routing with sequential heuristics [24].

Several studies utilized statistical models including a logit model to predict business failure [39], structural equation modeling to estimate locational privacy [35], and a hedonic pricing model [21], while experimental designs were used to assess cognitive and behavioral aspects of LA and DS [8]. 

On the spatial side, some studies used descriptive spatial analysis of point locations and polygons, while several studies used more sophisticated GIS methods including 3-D display [42], geographical flow diagrams with flowlines [33], and multi-layer urban mapping [11].

### 2.3 Location analytics content

A literature review study ofleadingMIS journals showed that the location analytics side of this special issue's research focus has trailed the more heavily researched non-location analytics side [10].

The classification has the following four levels:

1. Spatial data manipulation. This is an elementary use of locational analysis that simply produces the raw geographic information; sometimes referred to as “dots on a map,” because the dots as raw data are not further organized or elaborated on to become informa- tion or knowledge [27]. Spatial data manipulation does not have a lo- cation analytics component.
2. Spatial data analysis. This is more descriptive than Level 1, and often exploratory. Techniques of spatial analysis are used [22,23,27] in- cluding overlays, buffering, spatial autocorrelation, hotspot analysis, proximity polygons, 3-D, rastering, location quotients, Huffmodel- ing, and spatial econometrics. Spatial data analysis considers the geospatial and geometric relationships of the mapping elements. For instance, layering includes analyzing the relationship of one mapping layer (e.g., a layer of locations of distribution centers) with another mapping layer (e.g., a layer of zip code polygons).
3. Spatial statistical analysis. At this level, data are used in estimating a statistical model or solvable optimizationmodel that recognizes spa- tial properties [2,6].
4. Spatial modeling. This level uses heuristics, simulations, and com- bined methods in an integrated model that are expressed spatially. The goal is to answer questions such as can the model express geo- graphic flows of persons and material objects, optimize the location ofbusiness offices and facilities, or simulate real world complex loca- tional environments and situations [26]. Spatial modeling goes be- yond the solvable spatial statistical models in step 3 and consists of deterministic or stochastic modeling and simulation that includes spatial elements. 

Referring to the articles in Table 1, thirteen are at Level 2, three at Level 3 and nine at Level 4.

### 2.4 Non-location analytics and decision support content

A majority of previous work on location analytics and decision support also incorporated non-location related components such as the un- derlying (non-locational) research problems, data utilized and/or generated, and non-locational analytics methodology. As examples of non-locational components in this collection of articles, [35] tackled the popular bankruptcy prediction problemusing location-tagged social media along with more typical business characteristics previously used in failure prediction, while [21] predicted hotel room rates using both facility and location data. In other examples, Gerber [14] used Twitter data, which has both location and non-location content in crime prediction, and [36] predicted service rate of a seaport using mostly geo-spatial data. The non-location data used in this body of work consisted of customer demographics and store characteristics [9], hotel facilities, roomamenities, andhotel categories [20], prices and restaurant ratings [35], and textual content of tweets [14]. 

Another subset of the reviewed research used non-location data and non-locational analytics techniques in addressing location problems. For example, [32] used client income, service fees, and equipment costs in a binary optimization model to determine optimal placement of wireless towers in a rural county in mid –Atlantic USA. Customer demand, vehicle capacity [24,31], vehicle size andweight [30], and facility (depot) capacity [24] alongwith location data have been used in vehicle route optimization problems. Johnson [20] introduced a system that used landlord, building and individual unit data along with multi criteria decision making (ranking) techniques for support in neighbor- hood selection by clients in the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program. 

### 2.5 Types ofrelationships between location analytics, non-location analyt- ics and decision support

The dimensions of integration we propose are: 

(a) conceptual integration, 

(b) algorithmic/software integration,

(c) integration as it appears to the user

