---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Why so many people? Explaining Nonhabitual Transport Overcrowding With Internet Data
categories: Mobility
---

Pereira F C, Rodrigues F, Polisciuc E, et al. Why so many people? explaining nonhabitual transport overcrowding with internet data[J]. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2015, 16(3): 1370-1379.

## Motivation

Public transport smartcard data can be used to
detect large crowds. By comparing smartcard data with statistics on habitual behavior (e.g. average by time of day), one can specifically identify non-habitual crowds, which are often prob- lematic for the transport system. While habitual overcrowding (e.g. during peak hour) is well understood by traffic managers and travelers, non-habitual overcrowding hotspots can be very disruptive given that they are generally unexpected. By quickly understanding and reacting to cases of overcrowding, transport managers can mitigate transport system disruptions.

## Research goal

This paper aims to address the following problems: what
are the potential causes of a non-habitual large crowd (an overcrowding hotspot); and how do these potential causes indi- vidually contribute to the overall impact? We will particularly focus on public transport overcrowding in special events areas.

## Proposed method

We propose a probabilistic data analysis model that breaks
each non-habitual overcrowding hotspot into a set of explanatory components. Potential explanatory components are retrieved from social networks and special events websites and then processed through text-analysis techniques. We then use the probabilistic model to estimate each components specific share of total over-crowding counts.

We first validate with synthetic data and then test our model
with real data from Singapores public transport system (EZLink), focused on 3 case study areas. We demonstrate that it is able to generate explanations that are intuitively plausible and consistent both locally (correlation coefficient, CC, from 85% to 99% for the 3 areas) and globally (CC from 41.2% to 83.9%). 

This model is directly applicable to domains that are sensitive to crowd formation due to large social events (e.g. communications, water, energy, waste).

### IDENTIFYING OVERCROWDING HOTSPOTS

### RETRIEVING POTENTIAL EXPLANATIONS FROM THE WEB

### BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL ADDITIVE MODEL