---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】A Framework for Passengers Demand Prediction and Recommendation
categories: Mobility
---

Zhang K, Feng Z, Chen S, et al. A framework for passengers demand prediction and recommendation[C]//Services Computing (SCC), 2016 IEEE International Conference on. IEEE, 2016: 340-347.

## Motivation

With the rapid development of mobile internet and wireless network technologies, more and more people use the mobile app to call a taxicab to pick them up. Therefore, understanding the passengers’ travel demand becomes crucial to improve the utilization of the taxicabs and reduce their cost.

With the rapid development of mobile internet and wireless network technologies in these years, the transportation industry has been greatly changed. More and more passengers in cities are relying on different mobile apps, such as DiDi1, Uber2,CAR3, Yongche4, to call a taxicab to pick them up for travel. This makes the knowledge about the potential passengers’ requirements important and valuable, which is lack for many taxicab drivers, especially the novice-like drivers. Actually, understanding the travel requirements can not only help the drivers picking up passengers more quickly and earning more money, but also reduce the cruising time and energy waste. Therefore, how to understand the travel requirements for efficiency improvement becomes an important issue for the transportation industry.

## Proposed method

Therefore, to deal with these issues, we present a demand
hotspots prediction framework based on the spatio-temporal analysis to predict and recommend the hotspots for drivers. Based on the analysis of historical data, including when and where passengers get on a taxi, we generate the demand distribution to learn the patterns which can help to improve the performance of the spatio-temporal clustering. Then the hotness score for each hotspot is predicted to represent the potential requirement of the passengers. Considering the fact that it would take time for the drivers to reach a given location while the requirement is dynamic, the top-k locations which combines the hotness and the distance is visually presented for each taxi driver to help them improve the efficiency.

## Contribution

- An adaptive prediction approach is proposed to identify the hotspots and predict the hotness of the passenger demands based on the historical GPS data; 

- A method combing the hotness prediction and locations to calculate attractive score is presented to generate recommendation for each driver; 

- A visual prototype system is developed to prove the effectiveness of the presented framework, with hotspots distribution denoted by hotness score and hit ratio that taxi drivers succeed in picking up passengers in predicted places;