---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Building event-centric knowledge graphs from news
categories: Mobility
---

Rospocher M, van Erp M, Vossen P, et al. Building event-centric knowledge graphs from news[J]. Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, 2016, 37: 132-151.

## Motivation

Knowledge graphs have gained increasing popularity in the past couple of years, thanks to their adoption in everyday search engines. Typically, they consist of fairly static and encyclopedic facts about persons and organizations – e.g. a celebrity’s birth date, occupation and family members – obtained from large repositories such as Freebase or Wikipedia. 

To construct an ECKG, we have identified four main information extraction challenges: 

(i) proper modeling of the expression of information in text and the referential value of the expression in the formal semantic ECKG model; 

(ii) correctly extracting and interpreting the information contained in a news article, according to the ECKG data model; 

(iii) linking the extracted information to established linked data repositories (e.g., DBpedia); 

(iv) establishing referential identity for entities and events across different expressions and mentions within and across different sources (e.g., same entity or event mentioned in different news articles), potentially in different languages. 

## Proposed method

In this paper, we present a method and tools to automatically build knowledge graphs from news
articles. As news articles describe changes in the world through the events they report, we present an approach to create Event-Centric Knowledge Graphs (ECKGs) using state-of-the-art natural language processing and semantic web techniques. Such ECKGs capture long-term developments and histories on hundreds of thousands of entities and are complementary to the static encyclopedic information in traditional knowledge graphs. We describe our event-centric representation schema, the challenges in extracting event information

from news, our open source pipeline, and the knowledge graphs we have extracted from four different news corpora: general news (Wikinews), the FIFA world cup, the Global Automotive Industry, and Airbus A380 airplanes. Furthermore, we present an assessment on the accuracy of the pipeline in extracting the triples of the knowledge graphs. Moreover, through an event-centered browser and visualization tool we show how approaching information from news in an event-centric manner can increase the user’s understanding of the domain, facilitates the reconstruction of news story lines, and enable to perform exploratory investigation of news hidden facts.

## Contribution

1. a definition of Event-Centric Knowledge Graphs (Section 1) 
2. a formal semantic representation for ECKGs that includes reference to the original source (Section 3)

3. a method and open source tools for the extraction of Event- Centric Knowledge Graphs in four languages (Section 4)

4. four openly available ECKGs (Section 5) 5. a first assessment of the quality of automatically created ECKGs (Section 6).
