---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Computer Vision for Autonomous Vehicles - Problems, Datasets and State-of-the-Art
categories: Mobility
---

Janai J, Güney F, Behl A, et al. Computer vision for autonomous vehicles: Problems, datasets and state-of-the-art[J]. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.05519, 2017.

## Motivation

While several topic specific survey papers have been written, to date no general survey on problems, datasets and methods in computer vision for autonomous vehicles exists. This paper attempts to narrow this gap by providing a state-of-the-art survey on this topic.

## Research goal

Our survey includes both the historically most relevant literature as well as the current state-of-the-art on several specific topics, including recognition, reconstruction, motion estimation, tracking, scene understanding and end-to-end learning.

## About future

it is safe to believe that fully autonomous navigation in arbitrarily complex environments is still decades away. The reason for this is two-fold: First, autonomous systems which operate in complex dynamic environments require artificial intelligence which generalizes to unpredictable situations and reasons in a timely manner. Second, informed decisions require accurate perception, yet most of the existing computer vision systems produce errors at a rate which is not acceptable for autonomous navigation. 泛化能力 & 准确率

## 2. Datasets & Benchmarks

### 2.1 Real-World Datasets

- Stereo and 3D Reconstruction
- Optical Flow
- Object Recognition and Segmentation
- Tracking
- Aerial Image Datasets
- Autonomous Driving
- Long-Term Autonomy

### 2.2 Synthetic Data

- MPI Sintel
- Flying Chairs and Flying Things
- Game Engines

## 3. Cameras Models & Calibration

### 3.1. Calibration Multiple

### 3.2. Omnidirectional Cameras

### 3.3. Event Cameras 

## 4. Representations

- Superpixels
- Stixels
- 3D Primitives

## 5. Object Detection

- Sensors
- Standard Pipeline
- Classificatio
- Part-based Approaches

### 5.1. 2D Object Detection

### 5.2. 3D Object Detection from 2D Images

### 5.3. 3D Object Detection from 3D Point Clouds

### 5.4. Person Detection

### 5.5. Human Pose Estimation

## 6. Semantic Segmentation

- Formulation
- Structured CNNs
- Conditional Random Fields

### 6.1. Semantic Instance Segmentation

### 6.2. Label Propagation

### 6.3. Semantic Segmentation with Multiple Frames

### 6.4. Semantic Segmentation of 3D Data Autonomous

### 6.5. Semantic Segmentation of Street Side Views

### 6.6. Semantic Segmentation of Aerial Images

### 6.7. Road Segmentation Segmentation

## 7. Reconstruction

### 7.1. Stereo

### 7.2. Multi-view 3D Reconstruction

### 7.3. Reconstruction and Recognition

## 8. Motion & Pose Estimation 

### 8.1. 2D Motion Estimation – Optical Flow

### 8.2. 3D Motion Estimation – Scene Flow

### 8.3. Ego-Motion Estimation 

### 8.4. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM)

### 8.5. Localization 

## 9. Tracking 

### 9.1. Tracking with Stereo

### 9.2. Pedestrian Tracking

### 9.3. State-of-the-art

## 10. Scene Understanding

## 11. End-to-End Learning of Sensorimotor Control

