---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】The Geography of Taste - Analyzing Cell-Phone Mobility and Social Events
categories: Mobility
---

Calabrese F, Pereira F C, Di Lorenzo G, et al. The geography of taste: analyzing cell-phone mobility and social events[C]//International conference on pervasive computing. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010: 22-37.

## Motivation

Being able to understand and predict crowded events is a challenge that any urban manager faces regularly, particularly in big cities. When it is not possible to determine the exact numbers (e.g., from ticket sales), the typical approach is based on intuition and experience. Even when the exact number of event atten- dees is known, it is still difficult to predict their effect on the city systems when traveling to and from the event. During the last years, the Pervasive Computing community has developed technologies that now allow us to face the challenge in new ways. Due to their ubiquity, GSM, bluetooth or WiFi localization tech- nologies such as in [1,2,3] can now be explored at a large scale.

## Reserch goal

The objective is to characterize the relationship between events and its attendees, more specifically of their home area. The hypothesis is that different kinds of events bring people from different areas of the city according to distribution patterns that maintain some degree of constancy.

## Proposed method

This paper deals with the analysis of crowd mobility during special events. We analyze nearly 1 million cell-phone traces and asso- ciate their destinations with social events. We show that the origins of people attending an event are strongly correlated to the type of event, with implications in city management, since the knowledge of additive flows can be a critical information on which to take decisions about events management and congestion mitigation.

### Data

anonymous cellular phone signaling data collected by AirSage.

Boston Globe event website [19] and selected 6 different
venues, corresponding to a total of 52 events.

## Result

Our results show that there is a strong correlation in that: people who live close to an event are preferentially attracted by it; events of the same type show similar spatial distribution of origins. As a consequence, we could partly predict where people will come from for future events.