---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Deep Multi-View Spatial-Temporal Network for Taxi Demand Prediction
categories: Mobility
---

## Motivation

Taxi demand prediction is an important building block to en- abling intelligent transportation systems in a smart city. An accurate prediction model can help the city pre-allocate re- sources to meet travel demand and to reduce empty taxis on streets which waste energy and worsen the traffic conges- tion. With the increasing popularity of taxi requesting ser- vices such as Uber and Didi Chuxing (in China), we are able to collect large-scale taxi demand data continuously. How to utilize such big data to improve the demand pre- diction is an interesting and critical real-world problem. 

Traditional demand prediction methods mostly rely on time series forecasting techniques, which fail to model the complex non-linear spatial and temporal relations. Recent advances in deep learning have shown superior performance on traditionally challenging tasks such as image classification by learning the complex features and correlations from large-scale data. This breakthrough has inspired researchers to explore deep learning techniques on traffic prediction problems. However, existing methods on traffic prediction have only considered spatial relation (e.g., using CNN) or temporal relation (e.g., using LSTM) independently.

One of the most fundamental questions for future smart cities is how to build an efficient transportation system. To address this question, a critical component is an accurate demand prediction model. 

## Research question

In this paper, we study the taxi demand prediction problem; that problem being how to predict the number of taxi requests for a region in a future timestamp by using historical taxi requesting data.

## Review

Representatively, autoregressive in- tegrated moving average (ARIMA) and its variants have been widely applied for traffic prediction (Li et al. 2012; Moreira-Matias et al. 2013; Shekhar and Williams 2008). Based on the time series prediction method, recent stud- ies further consider spatial relations (Deng et al. 2016; Tong et al. 2017) and external context data (e.g., venue, weather, and events) (Pan, Demiryurek, and Shahabi 2012; Wu, Wang, and Li 2016). While these studies show that prediction can be improved by considering various addi- tional factors, they still fail to capture the complex nonlinear spatial-temporal correlations. 

Recent studies (Zhang, Zheng, and Qi 2017; Zhang et al. 2016) propose to treat the traffic in a city as an image and the traffic volume for a time period as pixel values.

Given a set of historical traffic images, the model predicts the traffic image for the next timestamp. Convolutional neural net- work (CNN) is applied to model the complex spatial correlation. Yu et al. (2017) proposes to use Long Short Term Memory networks (LSTM) to predict loop sensor readings. They show the proposed LSTM model is capable of modeling complex sequential interactions. These pioneering attempts show superior performance compared with previous methods based on traditional time series prediction methods. 

However, none of them consider spatial relation and temporal sequential relation simultaneously.



## Proposed method

We propose a Deep Multi-View Spatial-Temporal Network (DMVST-Net) framework to model both spatial and temporal relations. Specifically, our proposed model consists of three views: 

temporal view (modeling correlations between future demand values with near time points via LSTM), 

spatial view (modeling local spatial correlation via local CNN), 

semantic view (modeling correlations among regions sharing similar temporal patterns). 

## Result

Experiments on large-scale real taxi demand data demonstrate effectiveness of our approach over state-of-the-art methods.

## Contribution

• We proposed a unified multi-view model that jointly considers the spatial, temporal, and semantic relations.

• We proposed a local CNN model that captures local characteristics of regions in relation to their neighbors.

• We constructed a region graph based on the similarity of demand patterns in order to model the correlated but spatially distant regions. The latent semantics of regions are learnt through graph embedding.

• We conducted extensive experiments on a large-scale taxi request dataset from Didi Chuxing. The results show that our method consistently outperforms the competing base-lines.

