---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】On the brink - Predicting business failure with mobile location-based checkins
categories: Mobility
---

Wang L, Gopal R, Shankar R, et al. On the brink: Predicting business failure with mobile location-based checkins[J]. Decision Support Systems, 2015, 76: 3-13.

## Motivation

Mobile-enabled location-based services are generating a huge amount of customer checkin data every day. It is vital to understand how small businesses, like restaurants, use this real-time data to make better-informed business operation decisions in this mobile marketing era.

## Research goal

we aim to find out the predictive power of customer checkins on business failure of restaurants in New York City by using several predictive modeling techniques, such as Neural Network, Logit model and K-nearest neighbor. 

in this paper we investigate whether the accuracy of predictions about retailers business performance can be significantly improved using checkin data. 

This paper addresses the following research questions: 

(1) can we use checkin information captured fromlocation-based services tomake a better prediction on business performance? 

(2) If yes, by howmuch can we improve our prediction compared to a prediction without such information?

## Result

Our findings are encouraging. The customer checkin data from both a focal restaurant and its neighbors have shown strong predictive power on business failure. Compared to the baseline model in which we only use business characteristic variables to predict failure, incorporating the checkin data captured from location-based services gives a remarkable improvement on predictive accuracy. 

## Contribution

Our findings provide the foundation for future studies on the predictive power of information obtained from location-based services on business operations.