---
layout: post
title: 2018.11.26 News
categories: Mobility
---

1. [Here come the self-driving taxis](https://www.economist.com/gulliver/2018/11/23/here-come-the-self-driving-taxis)

    Waymo, a subsidiary of Alphabet, a tech firm, is planning to launch the world’s first commercial driverless taxi service early next month in Phoenix, Arizona. Waymo, which has yet to announce a name or launch date for the service, is also aiming to put autonomous taxis on the streets of California next year.

    Waymo is intentionally taking things slowly to avoid these types of setbacks. Some cars will have backup drivers, although the company’s modified Chrysler Pacifica vehicles are expected to drive themselves more than 99.9% of the time.

    All these vehicles will start off operating in limited (or “geofenced”) urban areas. But it is only a matter of time before these services are widely available to business travellers. The impact will be substantial. On a fundamental level, they could make travel much more productive. Rather than sitting at the wheel or making small talk with a driver, travellers could hop onboard and power up their laptops to do work.

2. [Apple CEO Tim Cook says company focusing on software for self-driving cars](https://www.indiatoday.in/technology/news/story/apple-ceo-tim-cook-says-company-focusing-on-software-for-self-driving-cars-1394754-2018-11-23)

    Cook was recently interviewed by CNN where he talked about a host of things including his decision his legacy and the company's autonomous vehicles. When asked about the Apple Park being an incubator for the company's autonomous vehicle, the Apple CEO tried to dodge the question by talking about the Apple Park. However, when prompted further, Cook said that Apple was working on autonomous systems.

    "We are working on autonomy. We are working on autonomous systems. On the software side of it to be very clear. We think that autonomy is a core technology but it can be used in many different ways," he said. But then he quickly diverged from the topic by focusing the broader theme of autonomy. "People automatically think about it (autonomy) in the car sense. But autonomy itself can be used in so many different ways. I wouldn't want to give you a list...So you also build a lot of skills around autonomy that can be used across the company," he added.

3. [HOW DRIVERLESS CARS COULD MAKE US BETTER DRIVERS](https://whowhatwhy.org/2018/11/24/how-driverless-cars-could-make-us-better-drivers/)

4. [Self-driving Submarine Market Outlook 2025: Analysis by Manufacturers with Regions, Types, Application and Competitive Landscape 2025](https://oilmarketforecast.com/2018/11/self-driving-submarine-market-outlook-2025-analysis-by-manufacturers-with-regions-types-application-and-competitive-landscape-2025/)