---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Interpreting traffic dynamics using ubiquitous urban data
categories: Mobility
---

Wu F, Wang H, Li Z. Interpreting traffic dynamics using ubiquitous urban data[C]//Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGSPATIAL International Conference on Advances in Geographic Information Systems. ACM, 2016: 69.

## Motivation

Given a large collection of urban datasets, how can we find their hidden correlations? For example, New York City (NYC) provides open access to taxi data from year 2012 to 2015 with about half million taxi trips generated per day. In the meantime, we have a rich set of urban data in NYC including points-of-interest (POIs), geo-tagged tweets, weather, vehicle collisions, etc. Is it possible that these ubiquitous datasets can be used to explain the city traf- fic? Understanding the hidden correlation between external data and traffic data would allow us to answer many important questions in urban computing such as: If we observe a high traffic volume at Madison Square Garden (MSG) in NYC, is it because of the regular peak hour or a big event being held at MSG? If a disaster weather such as a hurricane or a snow storm hits the city, how would the traffic be affected? Most of existing studies on traffic dynamics focus only on traffic data itself and do not seek for external datasets to explain traffic. 

## Contribution

• We study a novel and important problem in urban computing: understanding traffic using ubiquitous urban data.
• We investigate how to design features and models to capture the correlations between traffic and different types of urban data.
• Our experiments show that external datasets can be helpful in interpreting taxi traffic.

