---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】A Multi-Level Clustering Approach for Forecasting Taxi Travel Demand
categories: Mobility
---

Davis N, Raina G, Jagannathan K. A multi-level clustering approach for forecasting taxi travel demand[C]//Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), 2016 IEEE 19th International Conference on. IEEE, 2016: 223-228.

## Motivation

Previous studies on taxi model fitting and prediction
mainly deal with predicting distribution of vacant taxis [10], recommender systems for taxi drivers and passengers based on the hotspots [14], and predicting human mobility from passenger pickups [7]. The work in [7] is closely related to ours – they predict the availability of pickups (similar to demand generated in our case) in a hotspot in the next time interval for China and specifically, an improved ARIMA model was observed as the best fit for their dataset. Empirically, we noticed that Indian traffic undergoes changes very rapidly from area to area, and hence a single unified model may not suffice. To the best of our knowledge, there has been little research on the Indian taxi demand modeling using data analysis. This is the focus of the current work.

## Proposed method

In this paper, we use time-series modeling to forecast taxi travel demand, in the context of a mobile application- based taxi hailing service. In particular, we model the passenger demand density at various locations in the city of Bengaluru, India. Using the data, we first shortlist time-series models that suit our application. We then analyse the performance of these models by using Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) as the performance metric. In order to improve the model performance, we employ a multi-level clustering technique where we aggregate demand over neighboring cells/geohashes. We observe that the improved model based on clustering leads to a forecast accuracy of 80% per km2. In addition, our technique obtains an accuracy of 89% per km2 for the most frequently occurring use case. Keywords: