---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Disruptive Transportation - The Adoption, Utilization, and Impacts of Ride-Hailing in the United States
categories: Mobility
---

Clewlow R R, Mishra G S. Disruptive transportation: The adoption, utilization, and impacts of ride-hailing in the United States[J]. University of California, Davis, Institute of Transportation Studies, Davis, CA, Research Report UCD-ITS-RR-17-07, 2017.

## Research goal

The purpose of this report is to provide early insight on the adoption of, use, and travel behavior impacts of ride-hailing.

## Adoption of Ride-Hailing

• In major cities, 21% of adults personally use ride-hailing services; an additional 9% use ride- hailing with friends, but have not installed the app themselves.

• Nearly a quarter (24%) of ride-hailing adopters in metropolitan areas use ride-hailing on a weekly or daily basis.
• Parking represents the top reason that urban ride-hailing users substitute a ride-hailing service in place of driving themselves (37%).

• Avoiding driving when drinking is another top reason that those who own vehicles opt to use ride-hailing versus drive themselves (33%).

• Only 4% of those aged 65 and older have used ride-hailing services, as compared with 36% of those 18 to 29.


• College-educated, affluent Americans have adopted ride-hailing services at double the rate of less educated, lower income populations.

• 29% of those who live in more urban neighborhoods of cities have adopted ride-hailing and use them more regularly, while only 7% of suburban Americans in major cities use them to travel in and around their home region.

• Among adopters of prior carsharing services, 65% have also used ride-hailing. More than half of them have dropped their membership, and 23% cite their use of ride-hailing services as the top reason they have dropped carsharing.
Vehicle

## Vehicle Ownership and Driving

• Ride-hailing users who also use transit have higher personal vehicle ownership rates than those who only use transit: 52% versus 46%.

• A larger portion of “transit only” travelers have no household vehicle (41%) as compared with “transit and ride-hail” travelers (30%).

• At the household level, ride-hailing users have slightly more vehicles than those who only use transit: 1.07 cars per household versus 1.02.

• Among non-transit users, there are no differences in vehicle ownership rates between ride- hailing users and traditionally car-centric households.

• The majority of ride-hailing users (91%) have not made any changes with regards to whether or not they own a vehicle.

• Those who have reduced the number of cars they own and the average number of miles they drive personally have substituted those trips with increased ride-hailing use. Net vehicle miles traveled (VMT) changes are unknown.
Ride-hailing.

## Ride-hailing and Public Transit Use

• After using ride-hailing, the average net change in transit use is a 6% reduction among Americans in major cities.

• As compared with previous studies that have suggested shared mobility services complement transit services, we find that the substitutive versus complementary nature of ride-hailing varies greatly based on the type of transit service in question.

• Ride-hailing attracts Americans away from bus services (a 6% reduction) and light rail services (a 3% reduction).

• Ride-hailing serves as a complementary mode for commuter rail services (a 3% net increase in use).

• We find that 49% to 61% of ride-hailing trips would have not been made at all, or by walking, biking, or transit.

• Directionally, based on mode substitution and ride-hailing frequency of use data, we conclude that ride-hailing is currently likely to contribute to growth in vehicle miles traveled (VMT) in the major cities represented in this study.