---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Real-Time Prediction of Taxi Demand Using Recurrent Neural Networks
categories: Mobility
---

Xu J, Rahmatizadeh R, Bölöni L, et al. Real-time prediction of taxi demand using recurrent neural networks[J]. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2018, 19(8): 2572-2581.

## Motivation

Predicting taxi demand throughout a city can help
to organize the taxi fleet and minimize the wait-time for passen- gers and drivers.

TAXI drivers need to decide where to wait for passengers in order to pick up someone as soon as possible. Passengers also prefer to quickly find a taxi whenever they are ready for pickup. Effective taxi dispatching can help both drivers and passengers to minimize the wait-time to find each other. 

Drivers do not have enough information about where passengers and other taxis are and intend to go. Therefore, a taxi center can organize the taxi fleet and efficiently distribute them according to the demand from the entire city [1], [2]. This taxi center is especially needed in the future where self-driving taxis need to decide where to wait and pick up passengers. To build such a taxi center, an intelligent system that can predict the future demand throughout the city is required.

## Proposed method

we propose a real-time method for predicting taxi demands in different areas of a city.

We divide a big city into smaller areas and aggregate the number of taxi requests in each area during a small time period (e.g. 20 minutes). In this way, past taxi data becomes a data sequence of the number of taxi requests in each area. 

Then, we train a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) [9] recurrent neural network (RNN) with this sequential data. The network input is the current taxi demand and other relevant information while the output is the demand in the next time-step.