---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】The static bike relocation problem with multiple vehicles and visits
categories: Mobility
---

Bulhões T, Subramanian A, Erdoğan G, et al. The static bike relocation problem with multiple vehicles and visits[J]. European Journal of Operational Research, 2018, 264(2): 508-523.

## Research goal

This paper introduces the static bike relocation problem with multiple vehicles and visits , the objective of which is to rebalance at minimum cost the stations of a bike sharing system using a fleet of vehicles.

There exists a rich body of research on the problem of rebalancing BSSs, mainly for two variants of the problem: the static version and the dynamic version. The main difference between the two variants is the customer demand during the rebalancing operation, which is assumed to be zero for the static variant while it can be non-zero for the dynamic variant.

## Review

The studies on the static version can be traced back to the seminal paper of Benchimol et al. (2011) in which the authors intro- duced the static stations balancing problem (SSBP) and proved it to be NP-Hard.

## Proposed Method

we include the handling times of the bikes within the service time limit of the ve- hicles to ensure that the workload constraint is not violated. This problem is called the static bicycle relocation problem with multiple vehicles and visits (SBRP-MVV)z

In this paper, we study the SBRP-MVV, which is a realistic representation of the real-world problem. The necessity of multiple visits arises from the existence of large, central bike stations the demand of which cannot be satisfied in a single visit. We present an iterated local search heuristic for the SBRP-MVV that benefits from subsequence based data structures, allowing the algorithm to perform move evaluations in amortized constant time. We also develop and present an integer linear programming formulation and an associated branch-and-cut algorithm for the SBRP-MVV. 


