---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Where are the passengers? A Grid-Based Gaussian Mixture Model for taxi bookings
categories: Mobility
---

## Motivation

Taxi bookings are events where requests for taxis are made by passengers either over voice calls or mobile apps. As the demand for taxis changes with space and time, it is important to model both the space and temporal dimensions in dynamic booking data. Several applications can benefit from a good taxi booking model. These include the prediction of number of bookings at certain location and time of the day, and the detection of anomalous booking events.

## Proposed method

we propose a Grid-based Gaussian Mixture Model (GGMM) with spatio-temporal dimensions that groups booking data into a number of spatio-temporal clusters by observing the bookings occurring at different time of the day in each spatial grid cell. Using a large-scale real-world dataset consisting of over millions of booking records, we show that GGMM outperforms two strong baselines: a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) and the state-of-the-art spatio-temporal behavior model, Periodic Mobility Model (PMM), in estimating the spatio-temporal distribution of bookings at specific grid cells during specific time intervals. GGMM can achieve up to 95.8% (96.5%) reduction in perplexity compared against GMM (PMM). Further, we apply GGMM to detect anomalous bookings and successfully relate the anomalies with some known events, demonstrating GGMM’s e↵ectiveness in this task.

We learn the GGMMmodel with parameters phi from the observed data using the well-known expectation-maximization algorithm (EM). 

## Data 

We conduct our research using three months of taxi booking data with more than few million bookings from approximately hundreds of thousands commuters in Singapore 1.

## Contribution

• We propose a continuous and unified Grid-based Gaussian Mixture Model (GGMM) to model spatio-temporal taxi bookings considering both their static and dynamic factors. This model extends the well-known Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) to consider grid-based booking rate so as to reflect the landscape constraints.

• We perform empirical analysis of large-scale booking data using GGMM and obtain interesting insights about the taxi booking patterns in Singapore. In addition to the differences between weekday and weekend bookings, we observe that rush hour bookings in the morning and evening are quite distinctive.

• We conduct a rigorous evaluation of GGMM in comparison with GMM and PMM when applying them to a prediction task using the booking data. Our experi- ments show that GGMM yields more accurate predic- tion results than the other two models.

• We further apply GGMM to detect anomalous booking data and relate them to o✏ine events in the city. The results show that GGMM is also e↵ective in this task.

