---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】 Preparing a nation for autonomous vehicles - opportunities, barriers and policy recommendations
categories: Mobility
---

Fagnant D J, Kockelman K. Preparing a nation for autonomous vehicles: opportunities, barriers and policy recommendations[J]. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice, 2015, 77: 167-181.

## Motivation

Autonomous vehicles (AVs) represent a potentially disruptive yet beneficial change to our transportation system. This new technology has the potential to impact vehicle safety, con- gestion, and travel behavior. All told, major social AV impacts in the form of crash savings, travel time reduction, fuel efficiency and parking benefits are estimated to approach $2000 to per year per AV, and may eventually approach nearly $4000 when comprehensive crash costs are accounted for. Yet barriers to implementation and mass-market penetration remain. Initial costs will likely be unaffordable. Licensing and testing standards in the U.S. are being developed at the state level, rather than nationally, which may lead to incon- sistencies across states. Liability details remain undefined, security concerns linger, and without new privacy standards, a default lack of privacy for personal travel may become the norm. The impacts and interactions with other components of the transportation system, as well as implementation details, remain uncertain. To address these concerns, the federal government should expand research in these areas and create a nationally recognized licensing framework for AVs, determining appropriate standards for liability, security, and data privacy.

## Research question

This paper serves as an introduction to AV technology, its potential impacts, and hurdles for transportation professionals and policymakers.

This paper seeks to explore the feasible aspects of AVs and discuss their potential impacts on the transportation system.
This research explores the remaining barriers to well-managed, large-scale AV market penetration and suggests federal-level policy recommendations for an intelligently planned transition, as AVs become a growing share of our transportation system. The paper contains three major sections:

- Potential benefits of autonomous vehicles. 
- Barriers to implementation. 
- Policy recommendations.

## Potential impacts of autonomous vehicles

### 1. Safety

Over 40% of these fatal crashes involve some combination of alcohol, distraction, drug involvement and/or fatigue.1
Self-driven vehicles would not fall prey to human failings, suggesting the potential for at least a 40% fatal crash-rate reduction, assuming automated malfunctions are minimal and everything else remains constant (such as the levels of long-distance, night-time and poor-weather driving). 

自动驾驶虽然减小了因为人类司机失误带来的事故，但是是否可能带来其他事故？例如黑客问题。

computer vision has much greater difficulty than humans in identifying material composition. 

### 2. Congestion and traffic operations

As the research shows, these benefits will not happen automatically. Many of these congestion-saving improvements
depend not only on automated driving capabilities, but also on cooperative abilities through vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communication. 

车辆之间的合作将由谁来主导？

Even without V2X communication, significant congestion reduction could occur if the safety benefits alone are realized. FHWA estimates that 25% of congestion is attributable to traffic incidents, around half of which are crashes (Federal Highway Administration, 2005).

### 3. Travel-behavior impacts

AVs may provide mobility for those too young to drive, the elderly and the disabled, thus generating new roadway capacity demands.

Most of these ideas point toward more vehicle-miles traveled (VMT) and automobile-oriented development, though perhaps with fewer vehicles and parking spaces. 

### 4. Freight transportation

Freight transport on and off the road will also be impacted. As one example, mining company Rio Tinto is already using 53 self-driving ore trucks, having driven 2.4 million miles and carrying 200 million tons of materials (Rio Tinto, 2014)

### 5. Anticipating AV impacts

To further understand the impact, the analysis assumes three AV market-penetration shares: 10%, 50% and 90%. These are assumed to represent not only market shares, but technological improvements over time, since it could take many years for the U.S. to see high penetration rates. This analysis is inherently imprecise, it provides an order-of-magnitude estimate of the broad economic and safety impacts this technology may have.

### 6. Changes in VMT and vehicle ownership

VMT per AV is assumed to be 20% higher than that of non-AV vehicles at the 10% market penetration rate, and 10% higher
at the 90% market penetration rate.

### 7. discount rate and technology costs

Early-introduction costs (perhaps seven years after initial roll- out) at the 10% market penetration level were assumed to add $10,000 to the purchase price of a new vehicle, falling to $3000 by the 90% market-penetration share, consistent with the findings noted in the Vehicle Cost section of this paper. Discussion

### 8. Safety impacts

### 9. Congestion reduction

### 10. Parking

## Barriers to implementation

### 1. Vehicle costs

### 2. AV certification

### 3. Litigation, liability and perception

### 4. Security

### 5. Privacy

### 6. Missing research

While AVs may be commercially available within five years, related research lags in many regards. Much of this is due to
the uncertainty inherent in new contexts: with the exception of a few test vehicles, AVs are not yet present in traffic streams and it is difficult to reliably predict the future following such disruptive paradigm shifts. Moreover, technical developments along with relevant policy actions, will effect outcomes and create greater uncertainty. With these caveats in mind, it is use- ful to identify the critical gaps in existing investigations to better prepare for AVs’ arrival. 

One of the most pressing needs is a comprehensive market penetration evaluation. As KPMG and CAR (2012), Google
(O’Brien, 2012), Nissan (Nissan, 2013), Volvo (Carter, 2012), and others make clear, AVs probably will be driving on our streets and highways within the next decade, but it is uncertain when they will comprise a substantial share of the U.S. fleet. More meaningful market penetration estimates should attach dates and percentages to aggressive, likely, and conservative AV-adoption scenarios. This would provide transportation planners and policy-makers with a reasonable range of outcomes for evaluating competing infrastructure investments, AV policies, and other decisions. 

Other important research gaps have been identified, with broad topic areas outlined at the 2014 Automated Vehicles Symposium (Transportation Research Board, 2014), as follows:

- Automated transit and shared mobility. 
- Regional planning and modeling. 
- Roadway management and operations.
- Truck automation opportunities. 
- Legal accelerators and brakes. 
- Automated vehicle human factors. 
- Near-term deployment opportunities. 
- Personal vehicle automation commercialization. 
- Automation systems operational requirements. 
- Road infrastructure needs of connected-automated vehicles.

## Policy recommendations

### 1. Expand federal funding for autonomous vehicle research

### 2. Develop federal guidelines for autonomous vehicle certification

### 3. Determine appropriate standards for liability, security, and data privacy

