---
layout: post
title: 2018.10.04 News
categories: Mobility
---

1. [大股东预测：2030年的特斯拉市值将达1万亿美元](https://36kr.com/p/5155852.html)

    网易科技讯10月3日消息，特斯拉主要股东Ron Baron周二告诉CNBC，特斯拉到2030年市值可能达到1万亿美元。

    他说：“我认为这可能是一笔5000亿美元的电池业务加上一笔5000亿美元的汽车业务。我认为特斯拉在2030年成为一家超过1万亿美元的公司的机会超过50％。而我认为它有80％的机会在三年内成为一家价值600亿美元的公司。”

    Baron预测道：“我认为特斯拉将成为最大的汽车公司，他们每年将销售1000万辆到1500万辆汽车。”

    预计特斯拉本周将公布其最新的汽车产量和交付数量。 根据电动车博客Electrek的说法，特斯拉在过去三个月里制造了大约8万辆汽车。

2. [雷诺全新电动SUV概念车巴黎首发，将于明年在中国国产](https://36kr.com/p/5155794.html)

    巴黎当地时间10月1日，雷诺发布了一款全新紧凑型纯电动SUV概念车——K-ZE。雷诺集团董事长兼首席执行官卡洛斯·戈恩透露，K-ZE量产版车型将于2019年率先在雷诺十堰工厂实现国产，随后出口全球。

3. [A SELF-DRIVING TRUCK STARTUP KEEPS IT SIMPLE, STUPID](https://www.wired.com/story/ike-self-driving-truck-startup-nuro-software-deal/)

    The robots are still coming, the software developers and hardware mavens and balance-sheet-wielding CEOs insist. But more and more, they emphasize that this work is hard, the **problems varied, the risks manifold, the regulations slow in coming.** Even Waymo, the putative leader in the industry, flush with Alphabet funding—which plans to launch a commercial service this quarter—is having trouble teaching computers to be competent drivers.

    The team picked trucks over cars so they can focus on relatively simple highway driving.

    Instead of building its own autonomous vehicle software stack, it's licensing one from Nuro. The two-year-old self-driving startup focuses on delivery robots; the company launched its first pilot project with the grocer Kroger in June.

    “This type of licensing arrangement seems rather new in the AV space," says Raj Rajkumar, an electrical and computer engineer who studies autonomous technology at Carnegie Mellon University. It might be a sign that once-unlimited autonomous vehicle startup funding is now limited, and that companies are getting creative with money.

    But the team is most excited about Nuro’s software architecture, which it says gives its engineers an easy-to-use foundation for its testing. Sun estimates the license will save Ike about two years (and 50 to 60 employees’ worth) of work.

4. [Waymo’s self-driving car crashed because its human driver fell asleep at the wheel](https://qz.com/1410928/waymos-self-driving-car-crashed-because-its-human-driver-fell-asleep/)

    In June, one of Waymo’s self-driving Chrysler Pacifica minivans crashed on the freeway outside of the company’s office in Mountain View, California, after its lone safety driver fell asleep at the wheel.

    Improvements in this case meant altering night-shift protocol to have two safety drivers instead of one, to guard against someone nodding off at the wheel. At a company meeting to discuss the incident, one attendee reportedly asked whether safety drivers were on the road too long, and was told that drivers can take a break whenever they need to.

5. [Honda to invest $2.75 billion in GM's self-driving car unit](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-gm-autonomous/honda-takes-57-percent-stake-in-gm-cruise-self-driving-unit-idUSKCN1MD1GW)

    Other global automakers are forging similar alliances to share the uncertainty and huge price of developing technologies that have yet to gain widespread consumer acceptance.

    “We’re still shooting for 2019 to have the first version or first wave of vehicles that come out on our own platform. This is what comes after that,” he said.

    Waymo has agreements with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCHA.MI) and Jaguar Land Rover [TAMOJL.UL] to buy and equip tens of thousands of vehicles with its self-driving systems.

6. [Renault's EZ-ULTIMO is a self-driving luxury lounge](https://www.engadget.com/2018/10/02/renault-ez-ultimo-luxury-autonomous-ev-concept/)

    it's a robotic EV concept that offers a "premium travel experience" rather than basic transportation, coddling occupants in wood, marble and leather.

7. [Ford's Self-Driving Cars Try Telling The World What They're Up To](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidsilver/2018/10/02/ford-experiments-with-communicating-self-driving-intent/#28ef843d41ea)

    What's more, Ford encourages other self-driving developers to join together in creating an industry standard for communication between self-driving cars and the surrounding environment.

    This is an exciting start to the communication between self-driving cars and pedestrians. The necessity of these communication approaches, however, is an open question as self-driving vehicles begin to appear in larger numbers.

    Waymo and Aptiv self-driving vehicles, which are testing in Arizona and Nevada, respectively, lack this type of communication. That does not appear to have hindered their effectiveness so far.

    This tension between de facto (by fact) and de jure (by law) standards is common in the world of software and technology. Often de facto standards win in practice and are later codified into de jure regulations.

    So Ford's best shot at the adoption of a communications standard for intent might be to put a lot of self-driving cars out on the road and gain the de facto embrace of its approach.

8. [Safe, efficient self-driving cars could block walkable, livable communities](https://phys.org/news/2018-10-safe-efficient-self-driving-cars-block.html)

    As self-driving cars roll out, they're already being billed as making me – and millions of American cyclists, pedestrians and vehicle passengers – safer.

    People are certainly talking about how self-driving cars could help build more sustainable, livable, walkable and bikable communities.

    But in a hypothetical future in which all cars are autonomous, maybe I'll make different choices? So long as I'm confident self-driving cars will at least try to avoid killing me on my bike, I'll take the most direct route to my destination, on roads that I consider much too dangerous to ride on today. I won't need to worry about drivers because the technology will protect me.

    But what happens if it's a lovely spring afternoon and all those 4,000 bike commuters are riding, in addition to a few thousand kids and teenagers running, riding or skating down my local roads? Some might even try to disrupt the flow of traffic by walking back and forth in the road or even just standing and texting, confident the cars will not hit them. It's easy to see how good driverless cars will enable people to enjoy those previously terrifying streets, but it also demonstrates that safety for people and efficiency for cars can't happen at the same time.

    One proposed solution would put cars and bicycles on different areas of the streets, or transform certain streets into "autonomous only" thoroughfares. But I question the logic of undertaking massive road-building projects when many cities today struggle to afford basic maintenance of their existing streets.

    An alternative could be to simply make new rules governing how people should behave around autonomous vehicles. Similar rules exist already: Bikes aren't allowed on most freeways, and jaywalking is illegal across most of the U.S.

9. [Self-driving cars are coming, but developers aren't reducing parking yet, survey finds](http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-parking-structure-future-20181002-story.html)

    Self-driving cars may be inevitable, but few office developers want to spend money preparing for the changes they will bring.

    That’s the conclusion of a recent survey of real estate professionals, despite the expectation that ride sharing and autonomous vehicles will drive down the need for parking in the decades ahead.

    Growing reliance on public transportation in some urban centers has led developers to cut back on the amount of parking they create, but in auto-centric markets such as Southern California there has been little reduction in the ratio of parking places to employees because the vast number of workers still drive to their jobs.

    Apartment landlord AvalonBay Communities Inc. will put a convertible garage in a residential complex it plans to start building in the Arts District in Los Angeles in 2019, according to Mark Janda, vice president of development.

    Portions of the two levels of underground parking could be converted to a gym, a theater and perhaps other recreational uses someday, he said last year, and the first floor could be reconfigured to plug in more shops and restaurants.

10. [Ohio cities interested in self-driving shuttles](https://www.dispatch.com/business/20181003/ohio-cities-interested-in-self-driving-shuttles)

