---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Applied artificial intelligence and trust—The case ofautonomous vehicles and medical assistance devices
categories: Mobility
---

## Motivation

Automation with inherent artificial intelligence (AI) is increasingly emerging in diverse applications, for instance, autonomous vehicles andmedical assistance devices. However, despite their growing use, there is still noticeable skepticism in society regarding these applications. 

## Research goal

this paper explores how firms systematically foster trust regarding applied AI.

## Contribution

Our studymakes five contributions to theory. 

First, we examine trust in applied AI via a discipline spanning approach and accordingly contribute to the cognitive engineering, innovation management, and sociology literature. 

Second, we consider technology acceptance based on the single construct of trust. Consequently, we diverge from earlier technology acceptance literature based on the technology acceptance model (TAM) (Davis, 1989). 

Third, our results illustrate the dichoto- mous constitution of trust in applied AI, which is formed by a symbiosis of trust in the technology as well as trust in the innovating firm and its communication. 

Fourth, our results provide tangible approaches that can be applied alongside the three bases of trust in automation identi- fied by Lee and Moray (Lee and Moray, 1992). Accordingly, trust in the technology evolves alongside performance, process, and purpose information. The performance basis is primarily reliant on both opera- tional and data security aspects; the process basis is determined by cognitive compatibility and usability ofthe application; and the purpose basis is founded on application context and design. 

Fifth, we illustrate the necessity of a democratic development process for applied AI (e.g., via stakeholder alignment, transparency in development, and early, proactive communication).
