---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】The Transport Disruption Ontology
categories: Mobility
---

Corsar D, Markovic M, Edwards P, et al. The transport disruption ontology[C]//International Semantic Web Conference. Springer, Cham, 2015: 329-336.

## Motivation

One such challenge is minimising the impact of transport disruptions [4]: road congestion is estimated to cost an average of 1% of GDP across the European Union [4], while the absence of real-time information about the impact of disruptions is a major factor in the dissatisfaction with, and reduced attractiveness of public transport [10,11]. However, tackling such problems requires addressing the challenges of data interoperability, analysis, information extraction, and reasoning presented by such environments - challenges that Semantic Web and linked data are key technologies in overcoming [9].

## Related work

Along with semantic models of public transport routes and schedules provided by the Transit and GTFS25 ontologies, models have also been defined for other aspects of the transport domain. These include the Road Traffic Management Ontology26, the scope of which is limited to describing the actions a moving vehi- cle can perform (e.g. accelerate, change lane), and its relation to other vehicles (e.g. relative speed, road position). The draft Road Accident Ontology27 mod- els road accidents in terms of the vehicles and living beings involved, relevant documents (e.g. driver licence, insurance certificate), location, and organisations (e.g. insurance companies). However, it is limited to only defining a single type of event (road accident) and does not consider any consequential impact. The Passim ontology28 models systems that convey transport information to trav- ellers. Passim models such systems in terms of name, how it is accessed (website, SMS, mobile application), and coverage in terms of the modes of transport and towns, cities, and geographic regions that information is provided for.

## Proposed method

Following linked data publishing best practise [5], Linked Open Vocabularies2 and the Linked Open Data3 cloud were reviewed to identify existing ontologies that could be used to meet these requirements. The selected ontologies and their integration with the Transport Disruption ontology are discussed below.

This paper presents the Transport Disruption ontology, a formal framework for modelling travel and transport related events that have a disruptive impact on traveller’s journeys. We discuss related mod- els, describe how transport events and their impacts are captured, and outline use of the ontology within an interlinked repository of the travel information to support intelligent transport systems.

## Contribution

Ontologies provide a key technology for supporting data integration. Alignment of the Transport Disruption ontology with existing models, such as Event, FOAF, Transit, and LinkedGeoData extends the existing semantic modelling capabili- ties for integrated mobility data sets. The Transport Disruption ontology enables descriptions of travel and transport related events and their disruptive impacts on mobility. The defined event types and details of their impacts can be extended as necessary for use in different applications. As such, we argue that the Trans- port Disruption ontology provides a necessary component in enabling the con- tribution of Semantic Web efforts to addressing the mobility challenges faced by society today and in future smart cities. Along with the future work discussed above, we plan further evaluation of the ontology through use cases explored in collaboration with the Semantic Web and transport research communities.