---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Are consumers willing to pay to let cars drive for them? Analyzing response to autonomous vehicles
categories: Mobility
---

Daziano R A, Sarrias M, Leard B. Are consumers willing to pay to let cars drive for them? Analyzing response to autonomous vehicles[J]. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 2017, 78: 150-164.

## Motivation

little attention has been devoted to the analysis of automated vehicles as marketable products. Consumer acceptance is critical to forecast adoption rates, espe- cially if one considers that there may be strong barriers to entry (potential high costs, concerns that technology may fail).

## Research question

In this paper we derive semiparametric estimates of the willingness to pay for automation. We

## Model

### Data

We use data from a nationwide online panel of 1260 individuals who answered a vehicle-purchase dis- crete choice experiment focused on energy efficiency and autonomous features.

### Method

We designed a web-based survey with a discrete choice experiment to determine early-market empirical estimates of the structural parameters that characterize current preferences for autonomous and semi-autonomous electric vehicles. The discrete choice experiment contained as experimental attributes three levels of automation: no automation, some or partial automation (‘‘automated crash avoidance”), and full automation (‘‘Google car”). Automation was allowed for alternative powertrains (hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid and full battery electric). Based on the results from this experiment, we estimate WTP for automation. 

## Results

We draw three key results from our analysis. 

First, we find that the average household is willing to pay a significant amount for automation: about $3500 for partial automation and $4900 for full automation. 

Second, we estimate substantial heterogeneity in preferences for automation, where a significant share of the sample is willing to pay above $10,000 for full automation technology while many are not willing to pay any positive amount for the technology. 

Third, our semiparametric random parameter logit estimates suggest that the demand for automation is split approximately evenly between high, modest and no demand, highlighting the importance of modeling flexible preferences for emerging vehicle technology.

A paper related to our own is that by Bansal et al. (2016), which estimates willingness to pay for different levels of automation. They find that for their sample of 347 residents of Austin, Texas, willingness to pay (WTP) for full automation is $7253, which is substantially higher than our own estimate. The authors also estimate WTP for partial automation of $3300, which is similar to our estimate.

## Contribution

Our work contributes to two strands of literature on the demand for new technology. The first area is the recent development in understanding the demand, penetration, and policy implications of autonomous vehicle technology. Our demand estimates contribute to the assessment of the social costs and benefits of autonomous vehicles. Fagnant