---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】An Energy-Efficient Mobile Recommender System
categories: Mobility
---

Ge Y, Xiong H, Tuzhilin A, et al. An energy-efficient mobile recommender system[C]//Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining. ACM, 2010: 899-908.

## Motivation

The increasing availability of large-scale location traces cre- ates unprecedent opportunities to change the paradigm for knowledge discovery in transportation systems. A partic- ularly promising area is to extract energy-efficient trans- portation patterns (green knowledge), which can be used as guidance for reducing inefficiencies in energy consumption of transportation sectors. However, extracting green knowl- edge from location traces is not a trivial task. Conventional data analysis tools are usually not customized for handling the massive quantity, complex, dynamic, and distributed na- ture of location traces. 

## Proposed method

To that end, in this paper, we provide a focused study of extracting energy-efficient transportation patterns from location traces. Specifically, we have the initial focus on a sequence of mobile recommendations. As a case study, we develop a mobile recommender system which has the ability in recommending a sequence of pick-up points for taxi drivers or a sequence of potential parking positions. The goal of this mobile recommendation system is to max- imize the probability of business success. Along this line, we provide a Potential Travel Distance (PTD) function for evaluating each candidate sequence. This PTD function pos- sesses a monotone property which can be used to effectively prune the search space. Based on this PTD function, we develop two algorithms, LCP and SkyRoute, for finding the recommended routes. Finally, experimental results show that the proposed system can provide effective mobile se- quential recommendation and the knowledge extracted from location traces can be used for coaching drivers and leading to the efficient use of energy.

