---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Geography of online network ties - A predictive modelling approach
categories: Mobility
---

Deodhar S J, Subramani M, Zaheer A. Geography of online network ties: A predictive modelling approach[J]. Decision Support Systems, 2017, 99: 9-17.

## Motivation

Internet platforms are increasingly enabling individuals to access and interact with a wider, globally dispersed group of peers. The promise of these platforms is that the geographic distance is no longer a barrier to forming network ties. However, whether these platforms truly alleviate the influence ofgeographic distance remains unexplored.

## Research Question

A few recent studies have examined this issue [10] suggesting that distance adversely influences frequency and magnitude of dyadic ties in online context as well. Our study extends this literature in at least two ways. 

First, we isolate the extent to which geographic distance pre- dicts the occurrences of dyadic ties by comparing its predictive power with that of the competing distancemeasures. Such an approach is nec- essary because a standard online platform does not directly provide geographic distance as an information cue to its users. Instead, it makes each user's nationality and other location information visible to other users. Therefore, geographic distance is only one of the several distance measures that can predict user's behavioral response. Any assessment of geographic distance as a predictor of network ties in an online context is incompletewithout the inclusion ofother formsofdis- tances. Second, we examine geographic distance in a context that does not follow the two-sided platform structure which is predominant in the extant literature on distance effects in online settings. This difference is relevant to the occurrence of dyadic ties because on two-sided platforms dyadic ties are typically “cross-sided.”