---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Minimizing Legal Exposure of High-Tech Companies through Collaborative Filtering Methods
categories: IntellectualPropertyProtection
---
Jin, Bo, Chao Che, Kuifei Yu, Yue Qu, Li Guo, Cuili Yao, Ruiyun Yu, and Qiang Zhang. “Minimizing Legal Exposure of High-Tech Companies through Collaborative Filtering Methods.” Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining - KDD ’16, 2016, 127–36. doi:10.1145/2939672.2939708.

## Minimizing Legal Exposure of High-Tech Companies through Collaborative Filtering Methods

### Establish the field

Patent litigation not only covers **legal and technical issues**, it is also a key consideration for managers of high-technology (high-tech) companies when **making strategic decisions**. Patent litigation **influences the market value** of high-tech companies.   

### identify the problem

However, this raises unique challenges.

### propose approach

in this paper, we develop a novel **recommendation framework** to solve the problem of **litigation risk prediction**. We will introduce a specific type of patent-related litigation, that is, **Section 337 investigations**, which prohibit all acts of unfair competition, or any unfair trade practices, when exporting products to the United States. 

To build this recommendation framework, we collect and exploit a large amount of published information related to almost all Section 337 investigation cases. 

This study has two aims: (1) to predict the litigation risk in a specific industry category for high-tech companies and (2) to predict the litigation risk from competitors for high-tech companies. 

### advantage

These aims can be achieved by mining historical investigation cases and related patents. Specifically, we propose two methods to meet the needs of both aims: a **proximal slope one predictor** and a **time-aware predictor**. Several factors are considered in the proposed methods, including the litigation risk if a company wants to enter a new market and the risk that a potential competitor would file a lawsuit against the new entrant. Comparative experiments using real-world data demonstrate that the proposed methods outperform several baselines with a significant margin.

### 1. Introduction

1) Patent litigation is lengthy and expensive. 

2) Patent trolls try to extort money from others using patent litigation.

3) Government pledged to protect innovators from frivolous litigation.

Thus, it is clear that patent litigation is a huge challenge for high-technology (high-tech) companies in the United States.

Data from Section 337 investigation, predicting the probability of its involvement in a Section 337 investigation is crucial for the development of a high-tech company. 

there are no **reliable unbiased data mining methods** on the patterns and trends of patent litigation in the United States

we develop two matrixes: 1) the **company–category matrix** predicts the litigation risk in a specific industry category for a high-tech company and 2) the **complainant–respondent matrix** predicts the litigation risk from the competitors for a high-tech company. We

