---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Destination Prediction by Trajectory Distribution-Based Model
categories: Mobility
---

Besse P C, Guillouet B, Loubes J M, et al. Destination prediction by trajectory distribution-based model[J]. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2018, 19(8): 2470-2481.

## Motivation

MONITORING and predicting road traffic is of great importance for traffic managers. 

It is useful to predict the final destination for several reasons. 

Some applications focus on recommending sightseeing places or targeting advertising based on a destination. These applications and advertising appear on our smartphone. They are not necessarily aware of the final destination of the user if he uses a cab or if he uses a know route previously taken and does not have indicated his final destination on his personal device. The prediction of the final destination is essential for these applications. 

Some research are also ongoing to automatically set destination in navigation systems based on our daily ride habits. Finally for cabs, predicting the final destination of a taxi has become an essential task. Cab companies, recently adopt electronic dispatch systems instead of VHF-radio systems. In most cases, taxi drivers operating with an electronic dispatch system do not indicate the final destination of their current ride. Hence, it is extremely difficult for dispatchers to know which taxi to contact. in order to improve the efficiency of electronic taxi dispatching systems it is important to be able to predict the final destination of a taxi while it is in service. Particularly during periods of high demand, there is often a taxi whose current ride will end near or exactly at a requested pick up location from a new rider. If a dispatcher knows approximately where their taxi drivers will be ending their current rides, they would be able to best identify which taxi to assign to each pickup request. This problem has been the subject of a Kaggle challenge entitled “ECML/PKDD 15: Taxi Trajectory Prediction (I)”

## Proposed framework

In this paper, we propose a new method to predict the final destination of vehicle trips based on their initial partial trajectories. 

We first review how we obtained clustering of trajectories that describes user behavior. 

Then, we explain how we model main traffic flow patterns by a mixture of 2-D Gaussian distributions. This yielded a density-based clustering of locations, which produces a data driven grid of similar points within each pattern. 

We present how this model can be used to predict the final destination of a new trajectory based on their first locations using a two-step procedure: 

we first assign the new trajectory to the clusters it most likely belongs. 

Second, we use characteristics from trajectories inside these clusters to predict the final destination. 

Finally, we present experimental results of our methods for classification of trajectories and final destination prediction on data sets of timestamped GPS-Location of taxi trips. 