---
layout: post
title: "Waymo分析"
categories: Mobility
---

## Waymo as Project
Waymo began as the Google self-driving car project in 2009. Today, we're an independent self-driving technology company with a mission to make it safe and easy for everyone to get around—without the need for anyone in the driver’s seat.

- make our roads safer
- free up people’s time
- improve mobility for everyone


## Waymo as Company
2016，Waymo，a self-driving technology company
The Google self-driving car project became Waymo, a self-driving technology company with a mission to <font color='red'>make it easy and safe for people and things to move around.</font>

- easy: 不用学车了，同时开车不用耗费精力了。
- safe: 每年大量人为驾驶问题，且有许多障碍人士和越来越老龄化。
- people and things: 并不仅仅局限在人。

### Safe
#### The world around us
- 1.25 million deaths worldwide due to vehicle crashes in 2014
- 32,675 deaths in the United States due to vehicle crashes in 2014
- 6% increase in traffic fatalities in 2016, reaching the highest point in nearly a decade
- There’s a clear theme to the vast majority of these incidents: human error and inattention. 94% of crashes involve human choice or error in the US.
- U.S. fatalities associated with human choice or error (2014)
    - 9,262 Speeding
    - 9,967 Alcohol
    - 3,179 Distraction
    - 846 Drowsiness

#### How Our Self-Driving Vehicle Sees the World and How it Works?

At the most basic level, human drivers need to answer four questions:
“Where am I?” (perceiving the environment around you), “What’s
around me?” (processing that information), “What will happen next?”
(predicting how others in that environment will behave), and “What
should I do?” (making driving decisions based on that information).
Self-driving vehicles need to answer those questions, too.

1. Where Am I?

    Before our cars drive in any location, our team builds our <font color='red'>own detailed three-dimensional maps</font> that highlight information such as road profiles, curbs and sidewalks, lane markers, crosswalks, traffic lights, stop signs, and other road features. Rather than rely on GPS, Waymo’s vehicles cross-reference their pre-built maps with realtime sensor data to precisely determine their location on the road.

2. What's Around Me?

    Our sensors and software scan constantly for objects around the vehicle—pedestrians, cyclists, vehicles, road work, obstructions—and continuously read traffic controls, from traffic light color and railroad crossing gates to temporary stop signs. Our vehicles can see up to <font color='red'>300 meters</font> away (nearly three football fields) in every direction.

3. What Will Happen Next?

    For every dynamic object on the road, our software <font color='red'>predicts future movements based on current speed and trajectory.</font> It understands that a vehicle will move differently than a cyclist or pedestrian. The software then uses that information to predict the many possible paths that other road users may take. Our software also takes into account how changing road conditions (such as a blocked lane up ahead) may impact the behavior of others around it.

4. What Should I Do?

    The software considers all of this information as it finds an appropriate route for the vehicle to take. Our software selects the exact trajectory, speed, lane, and steering maneuvers needed to progress along this route safely. Because our vehicles are constantly monitoring the environment, and predicting the future behavior of other road users in 360 degrees around our vehicles, they’re able to respond quickly and safely to any changes on the road.

#### Our System Safety Program (Safety By Design)
Safety by Design means we consider safety from the ground up and incorporate safety at every system level and every development stage, from design to testing and validation. It is a multi-pronged approach that builds upon best practices from a variety of industries, including aerospace, automotive, and defense (including aspects of MIL-STD-882E [10] and ISO 26262). [11] 

Areas Addressed by Waymo’s System Safety Program：
- Behavioral Safety: 

    <font color='red'>Behavioral safety refers to the driving decisions and behavior of our vehicles on the road.</font> Just as for human drivers, our vehicles are subject to traffic rules and must safely navigate a variety of scenarios, both expected and unexpected. Waymo uses a combination of functional analysis, simulation tools, and on-road driving to fully understand the challenges presented within our operational design domain, and to develop safety requirements and a multi-pronged testing and validation process.

- Functional Safety:

    <font color='red'>Functional safety seeks to ensure that our vehicles operate safely even when there is a system fault or failure. That means building in backup systems and redundancies to handle the unexpected.</font> For example, all of our self-driving vehicles are equipped with a secondary computer that can take over in the event of a main computer failure, bringing the vehicle to a safe stop (i.e. a minimal risk condition). Each of our vehicles also has backup steering and braking, along with many layers of redundancies throughout the system. 

- Crash Safety:

    Crash safety, or crashworthiness, refers to <font color='red'>the ability of vehicles to protect passengers inside the vehicles</font> through a variety of measures, ranging from a structural design that shields people inside, to features like seat restraints and airbags that mitigate injury or prevent death. Crash safety in the U.S. is covered by the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS), which are issued by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Vehicle manufacturers must certify that their base vehicles meet applicable FMVSS requirements. 

- Operational Safety:

    This refers to the <font color='red'>interaction between our vehicles and passengers.</font> With operational safety, we can ensure that consumers have a safe and comfortable experience in our vehicles. Our approach to building a safe product is informed by our hazard analyses, existing safety standards, extensive testing, and best practices from a variety of industries. For example, through initiatives like our early rider program (further described in section 4), we have developed and tested user interfaces so that passengers can clearly indicate their destination, direct the vehicle to pull over, and contact Waymo rider support.

- Non-Collision Safety:

    We address <font color='red'>physical safety for the range of people who might interact with the vehicle.</font> For example, this includes electrical system or sensor hazards that could cause harm to occupants, vehicle technicians, test drivers, first responders, or bystanders.

Safety Porcesses

    Waymo organizes the processes we use to keep our vehicles safe through our System Safety Program.

    The hazard analysis process helps identify requirements for our self-driving system architecture, subsystems, and components. These safety requirements are developed from the use of a series of subsystem and system analysis techniques, various systems engineering processes, and Federal and State laws and regulations. The analysis also supports the development of requirements for our behavioral safety testing, and how our system detects and handles faults.

#### How Waymo's Self-Driving Vehicles Work?

This type of technology falls under SAE International’s definition of a Level 4 automated driving system, as our technology also has the ability to bring a vehicle to a safe stop (i.e. a minimal risk condition) in the event of any system failures. Unlike autonomous systems at lower levels (Level, 1, Level 2, and Level 3), a Level 4 system also has the ability to bring a vehicle to a safe stop (i.e. achieve a minimal risk condition) in the event of any system failures, without any expectation that a human driver take over. [13]



Waymo的官网介绍很聪明，分成三部分，公司成长；waymo的技术；waymo在路上；

Self-Driving Technology Can Save Lives and Improe Mobility

资料来源：
1. [waymo官网](https://waymo.com/)
2. [Waymo Safety Report:On the Road to Fully Self-Driving](https://storage.googleapis.com/sdc-prod/v1/safety-report/Safety%20Report%202018.pdf)
