---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】The Geography of Taste - Analyzing Cell-Phone Mobility and Social Events
categories: Mobility
---

Calabrese F, Pereira F C, Di Lorenzo G, et al. The geography of taste: analyzing cell-phone mobility and social events[C]//International conference on pervasive computing. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010: 22-37.

## Motivation

Even when the exact number of event atten- dees is known, it is still difficult to predict their effect on the city systems when traveling to and from the event. During the last years, the Pervasive Computing community has developed technologies that now allow us to face the challenge in new ways. Due to their ubiquity, GSM, bluetooth or WiFi localization tech- nologies such as in [1,2,3] can now be explored at a large scale.

In 2008, a study from the U.S. Federal Highway Administration [4] was dedi- cated to investigate the economic and congestion effects of large planned special events (PSEs) on a national level. The clearer understanding of the scale of PSEs and their economic influence is essential to achieve a more efficient transporta- tion planning and management of traffic logistics of such events. In that study, the authors find that there are approximately 24,000 PSEs annually with over 10,000 in attendance across USA, or approximately 470 per week. These num- bers, possibly similar in other parts of the world, call for application of efficient techniques of crowd analysis. From the point of view of Pervasive Computing, besides the very task of analyzing digital footprints obtained from ubiquitous de- vices, which lies in the crux of this research, other questions arise that transcend this area. 



## Proposed method

This paper deals with the analysis of crowd mobility during special events. We analyze nearly 1 million cell-phone traces and associate their destinations with social events. We show that the origins of people attending an event are strongly correlated to the type of event, with implications in city management, since the knowledge of additive flows can be a critical information on which to take decisions about events management and congestion mitigation.


