---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Feature Engineering for Place Category Classification
categories: Mobility
---

## Motivation

Mobile Data Challenge (MDC) Task 1 is to infer the category of a place using the smartphone sensing data obtained at the place.

Juha K. Laurila, Daniel Gatica-Perez, Imad Aad, Jan Blom, Olivier Bornet, Trinh-Minh-Tri Do, Olivier Dousse, Julien Eberle, and Markus Miettinen. The Mobile Data Challenge: Big Data for Mobile Computing Research. In Proc. Mobile Data Challenge by Nokia Workshop, in conjunction with Int. Conf.. on Pervasive Computing, Newcastle, June 2012.

## Data

Nokia MDC releases all the sensor data in the raw form, which provides us the possibility to extract best features ourselves.

## Proposed method

Our main strategy is to extract as many useful features as we can from the sensor data, and build good classifiers using these features. By useful, we mean features that have discriminability among the ten location categories. Once the features are generated, we use state-of-the-art classifiers, e.g. SVM and Decision Trees, to decide how to form rules for place category classification.

### CONDITIONAL FEATURES

### FEATURE ENGINEERING

- Time features
- Accelerometer features
- Application features
- Bluetooth and Wlan features
- Calllog features
- System features
- Media feature
- Bag-of-Words (BoW) features

### FEATURE SELECTION AND CLASSIFIER BUILDING

- Logistic regression (LogReg)
- Support Vector Machines (SVM)
- Gradient Boosted Trees (GBT)
- RandomForest (RF)

## Contribution

1. We propose the Conditional Feature method to explore the relationship among features. And in our experiments, we find that time conditions are very useful in place type classification.

2. We analyze what features are useful for place type prediction. Although most of the features are already proposed in the literature, our work is a systematic analysis on their usefulness in this specific task, therefore provides important insights on place type prediction.