---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Preferences for shared autonomous vehicles
categories: Mobility
---

Krueger R, Rashidi T H, Rose J M. Preferences for shared autonomous vehicles[J]. Transportation research part C: emerging technologies, 2016, 69: 343-355.

Writing is good.

## Motivation

For the design of effective policies aiming to realize the advan- tages of SAVs, a better understanding ofhow SAVs may be adopted is necessary.

## Research goal

This article intends to advance future research about the travel behavior impacts ofSAVs, by identifying the characteristics ofuserswhoare likely to adoptSAVservices andby eliciting willingness to pay measures for service attributes.

to the best of the authors’ knowledge, only two studies have specifically dealt with the adoption of SAVs. Haboucha et al. (2015) draw from stated preference data to investigate car owners’ propensity to switch to SAVs on work-related and education-related trips. Furthermore, Bansal et al. (2016) analyze individuals’ stated frequencies to use SAVs under different pricing scenarios and identify the characteristics of potential SAV adopters. This current study distinguishes itself from previous studies by explicitly addressing the acceptance of DRS in the context of SAV use

## Method

a stated choice survey was conducted and analyzed, using a mixed logit model.

This research draws from an online survey, which was completed by 435 residents of major metropolitan areas of
Australia. The survey comprised two parts. In the first part, a questionnaire was presented to survey takers to collect information about socio-demographic characteristics as well as about mobility-related characteristics and behavior. Furthermore, Haustein’s (2012) Likert type attitudinal indicators aimed to obtain measurements for modal preferences. The second stage of the survey featured a stated choice experiment, in which the respondents were asked to indicate whether they would switch to an SAV on a trip they recently undertook.

Modality styles (e.g. Vij et al., 2013) were identified by clustering respondents’ self-reported frequencies of use of the four transport modes car, PT, walking and bicycling, using the k-means algorithm (Hartigan and Wong, 1979). The

## Result

The results show that service attributes including travel cost, travel time and waiting time may be critical determinants of the use of SAVs and the acceptance of DRS. 

Differences in willingness to pay for service attributes indicate that SAVs with DRS and SAVs without DRS are perceived as two distinct mobility options. The results imply that the adoption of SAVs may differ across cohorts, whereby young individuals and individuals with multimodal travel patterns may be more likely to adopt SAVs.

## Discussion

The results of this survey contribute to a growing body of literature on SAV adoption, by substantiating knowledge about
the potential users of SAVs. More specifically, the results suggest that service attributes including travel time, waiting time and fares are significant determinants of SAV use and DRS acceptance. Considerable variation of VoT estimates across the alternatives SAVs without DRS and with DRS indicates that the two alternatives are regarded as two distinct mobility options. SAV with DRS are more likely to be selected by young travelers and a strong relationship between an individual’s modality style and the propensity to choose SAVs is revealed. In addition, current carsharing users are relatively more likely to use SAVs with DRS. Respondents, who traveled by car as driver on the reference trip, are relatively more likely to choose the option SAV without DRS, while selecting the option SAV with DRS is more likely if the reference trip was undertaken by car as passenger. Interestingly, switching to any of the hypothetical options is not relatively more likely, if respondents traveled by PT on the reference trip.

Policy implications 

Several policy implications can be derived. Overall, the results suggest that the adoption of SAV services will most likely differ across sub-groups and modality may be a major discriminator of sub-group membership. While multi-modal travelers may adopt SAVs to facilitate their multimodality, individuals whose modality is mostly and almost exclusively centered around the use of the private car may be reluctant to use SAVs. Furthermore, market penetration rates may be greater among young travelers. The derived policy implications are complementary to the existing literature, which deals with the policy implications of the AV technology in general (Anderson et al., 2014; Fagnant and Kockelman, 2015a, 2014; Wadud et al., 2016).
5.3.

## Some useful information

The AV technology will also dramatically lower the likelihood of accidents so that the insurance primes contained in current carsharing rates could be reduced.

Ride-sharing with conventional vehicles requires users to incur high transaction costs for searching for ride opportunities, for arranging pick-ups and for cost-sharing agreements. In many cases, transaction costs may offset the benefits of ride-sharing. Even if ride-sharing was supported by information and communication technology (ICT), drivers would still need to navigate to the origin and the destination of the passenger for whom a ride opportunity is provided. Furthermore, the applicability of ride-sharing is restricted to cases, where the route between the driver’s origin and destination roughly coincide with the ride-receiving person’s origin and destination. In conjunction with a comprehensive ICT integration, the AV technology and SAVs could resolve the barriers, which currently hinder a greater uptake of ride-sharing.

Empirical evidence suggests that the use of the private car is not only influenced by utilitarian considerations, but also by symbolic-affective motives such as the use of the car as symbol of social status and self-expression as well as feelings of autonomy, freedom and flexibility (Anable and Gatersleben, 2005; Steg, 2005). 

DRS heavily relies on user acceptance, as users must be willing to spend some time with a stranger in the confined space of an SAV.