---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】A Multinomial Logit Model of Mode and Arrival Time Choices for Planned Special Events
categories: Mobility
---

CHANG M S, LU P R. A multinomial logit model of mode and arrival time choices for planned special events[J]. Journal of the Eastern Asia Society for Transportation Studies, 2013, 10: 710-727.

## Motivation

A concert activity, one kind of planned special event, frequently causes congestion and unexpected delays for travelers.

Planned special events (PSE) include sporting events, concerts, festivals, and conventions occurring at permanent multi-use venues as well as less frequent public events occurring at temporary venues, such as parades, fireworks displays, bicycle races, sporting games, motorcycle rallies, and seasonal festivals. Unlike emergency special events (ESE), PSEs occur at known locations and at scheduled times. PSEs create an increase in travel demands and produce significant site-specific or even regional impacts such as severe traffic congestion or transit overcrowding. Related transportation system operations are also affected, such as freeway operations, arterial and other street operations, transit operations, and pedestrian flow (FHWA, 2009). Authorities must manage the intense travel demands of PSEs to order to maintain transportation system safety, mobility, and reliability. The challenges they face include mitigating potential capacity constraints, accommodating heavy pedestrian flow, and influencing the utility associated with various travel choices.

## Proposed method

The purpose of this study is to investigate concert participants’ behaviors regarding mode and arrival time choices. A multinominal logit model is estimated to explore the most effective factors in their travel choices. A personal interview survey with 1008 respondents was conducted at Taipei Arena. The results show that significant explanatory variables of this travel choices model include total travel cost, total travel time, gender, age, household income, total number of motorcycles owned by a household, trip origin, fan seniority, expected time of arrival relative to the concert start time, single-stop trip or not, and first-time visiting or not. Our research results can assist in predicting time-dependent travel demands of each mode of concert participators in the case of planned special events.