---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Driver Vigilance in Automated Vehicles - Hazard Detection Failures Are a Matter of Time
categories: Mobility
---

Greenlee E T, DeLucia P R, Newton D C. Driver vigilance in automated vehicles: hazard detection failures are a matter of time[J]. Human factors, 2018, 60(4): 465-476.

## Motivation

Although automated vehicles are relatively novel, the nature of human-automation interaction within them has the classic hallmarks of a vigilance task. Drivers must maintain attention for prolonged periods of time to detect and respond to rare and unpredictable events, for example, roadway hazards that automation may be ill equipped to detect. Given the similarity with traditional vigilance tasks, we predicted that drivers of a simulated automated vehicle would demonstrate a vigilance decrement in hazard detection performance. 

## Research goal

The primary aim of the current study was to determine whether monitoring the roadway for hazards during automated driving results in a vigilance decrement.

## Method

Participants “drove” a simulated automated vehicle for 40 minutes. During that time, their task was to monitor the roadway for roadway hazards.

Twenty-two individuals (7 men, 15 women) ranging in age from 18 to 22 years (Mage = 19.36, SD = 1.33) completed the current study in exchange for course credit. All

## Result

As predicted, hazard detection rate declined precipitously, and reaction times slowed as the drive progressed. Further, subjective ratings of workload and task-related stress indicated that sus- tained monitoring is demanding and distressing and it is a challenge to maintain task engagement.

Monitoring the roadway for potential hazards during automated driving results in workload, stress, and performance decrements similar to those observed in traditional vigilance tasks.

## some useful opinion

When automation is used to relieve a human operator of task duties, the operator is not relieved of work. Instead, the nature of the work changes. Human-automation interac- tion typically requires that an operator remain alert and attentive so that they can monitor one or more automated systems and be prepared to intervene should automation fail (Sheridan, 2002).

Indeed, various automated vehicle technolo- gies are rapidly being developed and deployed as developers aim to improve roadway safety by transferring driving duties from human to machine (Smith et al., 2015).

Events that require a driver to retake manual control of a partially automated vehicle can be split into two distinct conceptual categories based on whether the automated driving system initiates the transition to manual control, and that distinction has implications for the need for sustained monitoring.

Other researchers have raised similar concerns and noted the probable importance of vigi- lance in partially automated vehicles (e.g., Kör- ber, Cingel, Zimmermann, & Bengler, 2015; Körber, Schneider, & Zimmermann, 2015; Mok et al., 2015).

many studies of distraction in partially automated vehicles reflect the negative consequences of automation misuse rather than proper use (Parasuraman & Riley, 1997). Though misuse is a possibility, the current study focuses on the consequences of proper automation use. Given