---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】Good drivers pay less - A study of usage-based vehicle insurance models
categories: Mobility
---

Bian Y, Yang C, Zhao J L, et al. Good drivers pay less: A study of usage-based vehicle insurance models[J]. Transportation research part A: policy and practice, 2018, 107: 20-34.

## Motivation

Usage-based insurance (UBI) has been attracting more and more attention; 

Numerous business opportunities and service modes are created because companies could get access to individual behavior data (Miah et al., 2017).

two open research questions are 

how behavioral data of drivers affects driving risk 

and how driver behavior should affect UBI pricing schemas. 

## Research question


The key research question in this research is how to utilize massive behavior data to offer assistance for making personalized UBI pricing strategy

## Model

This paper proposes a driver risk classification model to evaluate the risk level of drivers based on in-car sensor data. A Behavior-centric Vehicle Insurance Pricing model (BVIP) and a vehicle premium calculation prototype are developed in this paper. Based on empirical data, our research results show that BVIP achieves better accuracy in terms of risk-level classification and the prototype achieves good performance in terms of effectiveness and usability.

## Evaluation

### Data

The dataset in our validation process contains two parts: insurants’ driving accident records and matched behavior data.

The behavior data were collected from an online platform (see Fig. 5) maintained by a Chinese data service company. This company has been a provider of On-Board Diagnostics (OBD) devices and has cooperated with some insurance companies for years. The OBD device is a computer-based system device that designed to monitor the performance of a vehicle engine's major components and to access the GPS information, accelerometer information, etc. During vehicle operation, behavior data (consisting of instantaneous velocity speed, ignition status of the vehicle, engine speed, acceleration, etc.) and geographic location (latitude and longitude) updates every 1 s. The

The insurants’ accident records are acquired from a Chinese insurance company located in Southern China. 206 accident records of insurants whose vehicles had an OBD device for more than 6 months are obtained. This study processes the data as follows: (1) Match the documented accident records with the particular insurant by their OBD device’s serial number; eventually obtain 206 accident records. (2) Remove the records with insurance policy period of less than 3 months. (3) Match the insurants’ accident data with their driving behavior data. (4) Process the missing data and errors in data recording. Finally, 198 individual observations (there are 73 accident-free drivers and 125 accident-involved drivers in the data set) with 215,736 trip records are obtained in total.

## Contribution

One important advancement of this study is to utilize supervised machine-learning approach to train the risk-level classification model with relevant sensor features and extend the existing research scope of usage-based insurance by designing a differential behavior-centric pricing mechanism based on in-car sensor data.

