---
layout: post
title: 【Paper】On Event Detection from Spatial Time Series for Urban Traffic Applications
categories: Mobility
---

Souto G, Liebig T. On event detection from spatial time series for urban traffic applications[M]//Solving large scale learning tasks. Challenges and algorithms. Springer, Cham, 2016: 221-233.

## Motivation

Since the last decades the availability and granularity of location-based data has been rapidly growing. Besides the proliferation of smartphones and location-based social networks, also crowdsourcing and voluntary geographic data led to highly granular mobility data, maps and street networks. 

In result, location-aware, smart environments are created. The trend for personal self-optimization and monitoring named by the term ‘quantified self’ will speed-up this ongoing process. The citizens in conjunction with their surrounding smart infrastructure turn into ‘living sensors’ that monitor all aspects of urban living (traffic load, noise, energy consumption, safety and many others). The “Big Data”- based intelligent environments and smart cities require algorithms that process these massive amounts of spatio-temporal data.

## research question

This article provides a survey on event processing in spatio-temporal data streams with a special focus on urban traffic.

In the paper at-hand we provide a introductory survey on 

(1) functions on heterogeneous spatio-temporal data streams, Sect. 2, 

(2) pattern matching, Sect. 3, 

(3) anomaly detection in spatio-temporal time series, Sect. 4,and 

(4) streaming frameworks, Sect. 5. 

All four aspects are relevant for implementing real-world event detection systems that process heterogeneous data streams.

## Function Classes on Heterogeneous Spatio-Temporal Time Series

spatial functions split into four groups: local, focal, zonal and global ones [5], illustrated in Fig. 1.

– Local functions operate on every single cell in a layer. And the cell is processed without reference to surrounding cells. An example is a map transformation, the multiplication with a constant, or the comparison with a threshold.

– Focal functions process cell data depending on the values of neighboring cells. The neighborhood can be defined by arbitrary shapes. Example functions are moving averages and nearest neighbor methods.

– Zonal functions process cells on the base of zones, these are cells that hold a common characteristic. Zonal functions allow the combination of heteroge- neous data streams in various layers by application of functions to one layer if another layer already fulfills another condition.

– Global functions process the entire data. Examples are distance based opera- tions.
For

## Event Pattern Matching

The exploitation of spatio-temporal event patterns is a major research field in mobility mining. 

The requirements for spatio-temporal pattern matcher in a smart city scenario are:

– to operate in real time, 

– to incorporate spatial [28] and temporal [2] relations 

– to provide local, focal, zonal, and global [5] predicates on the attributes,

– to pose arbitrary queries formed of these elements (regular language [23], Kleene closure [18]).

The temporal expressiveness is split into the following four categories:

– Pattern Duration is a constraint on the temporal distance of first and last condition in a pattern.

– Condition Duration is a constraint on the duration of a condition to get matched.

– Inter-Condition Duration is a constraint on the temporal distance among suc- ceeding conditions.

– Complete indicates the complete integration of the temporal relations [2]. 

## Anomaly Detection on Spatial Time Series

### Statistical Approach

### Human/Driver’s Behavior

### Unsupervised

### Tree Approach

## Useful information

Early detection of anomalies in spatio-temporal data streams provides many applications for smart cities and is a major research topic since the availabil- ity and granularity of location-based data has been rapidly growing in the last decades.

The “Big Data”-based intelligent environments and smart cities require algorithms that process these massive amounts of spatio-temporal data in real-time. But key challenges for streaming analysis are (1) one-pass processing (2) limited amount of memory and (3) limited time to process [6].

In principle, there are three types of spatio-temporal data streams [19]: spatial time series, events,and trajectories.

–A spatial time series consists of tuples (attribute, object, time, location).

–An event of a particular type eventi is triggered from a spatial time series under certain conditions and contains the tuples verifying these conditions (eventi,objectn,timen,locationn).

–A trajectory is a spatial time series for a particular objecti. It contains the location per time and is a series of tuples (objecti,timen,locationn).

Detecting events in spatio-temporal data is a widely investigated research area (see e.g. [1] for an overview)