---
layout: post
title: 2019.03.20 News
categories: Mobility
---

1. [Cities are getting more serious about micromobility data](https://techcrunch.com/2019/03/19/cities-are-getting-more-serious-about-micromobility-data/)

    > Passport,  a mobility management startup, has partnered with Charlotte, N.C., Detroit, Mich. and Omaha, Neb. to create a framework to apply parking principles, data analysis and more to the plethora of shared micromobility services.

    > “Cities already have a well-established system for charging cars to park on the curb and this same solution should be applied to other modes of transportation,” Youakim said. “By charging scooters to park with usage-based pricing, cities can more effectively manage scooters in their communities and naturally balance supply and demand.”

    可视化做的挺好的。

2. [Yandex inks deal with Hyundai to build self-driving car tech for its Mobis OEM division](https://techcrunch.com/2019/03/19/yandex-inks-deal-with-hyundai-to-build-self-driving-car-tech-for-its-mobis-oem-division/)

    > On the heels of Hyundai becoming the latest investor in Ola, today another key deal was revealed that underscores Hyundai’s ambitions in next-generation automotive services. Yandex, the Russian search giant that has been working on self-driving car technology, has inked a partnership with Hyundai to develop software and hardware for autonomous car systems.

    联盟

3. [It looks like Waymo is about to expand its self-driving taxi service](https://mashable.com/article/waymo-one-exands-in-phoenix/#dXPeWz7fpmqP)

    > In a blog post Tuesday, the company announced a new 85,000-square-foot technical service center in Mesa, Arizona, just outside of Phoenix. The taxi service — available through an app that orders Waymo-ified Chrysler Pacifica minivans — has only been available for about 400 "early riders" in the Phoenix area, but Waymo says it will open up to more people. It's just not clear when that will happen.

