---
layout: post
title: 【Method】Tidy Data
categories: Analytics
---

http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.html

how to make data cleaning as easy and effective as possible.

## Defining tidy data

A dataset is a collection of values, usually either numbers (if quantitative) or strings (if qualitative). 

Values are organized in two ways. Every value belongs to a variable and an observation.

A variable contains all values that measure the same underlying attribute (like height, temperature, duration) across units.

An observation contains all values measured on the same unit (like a person, or a day, or a race) across attributes.

For a given dataset, it is usually easy to figure out what are observations and what are variables, but it is surprisingly difficult to precisely define variables and observations in general. A general rule of thumb is that it is easier to describe functional relationships between variables (e.g., z is a linear combination of x and y, density is the ratio of weight to volume) than between rows, and it is easier to make comparisons between groups of observations (e.g., average of group a vs. average of group b) than between groups of columns.

In a given analysis, there may be multiple levels of observations.

Tidy data is a standard way of mapping the meaning of a dataset to its structure. 

A dataset is messy or tidy depending on how rows, columns and tables are matched up with observations, variables and types. In tidy data:

1. Each variable forms a column.
2. Each obseraction forms a row
3. Each type of observational unit forms a table.

## Tidying messy datasets

### Column headers are values, not variable names

To tidy it, we need to melt, or stack it. In other words, we need to turn columns into rows.

### Multiple variables stored in one column

### Varibles are stored in both rows and columns

Fixing the issue with the type of observation requires the cast, or unstack, operation.

### Multiple types in one table

Datasets often involve values collected at multiple levels, on different types of observational units. During tidying, each type of observational unit should be stored in its own table. This is closely related to the idea of database normalization, where each fact is expressed in only one place.

Normalization is useful for tidying and eliminating inconsistencies. However, there are few data analysis tools that work directly with relational data, so analysis usually also requires denormalization or merging the datasets back into one table.

### One type in multiple tables

1. Read the files into a list of tables.
2. For each table, add a new column that records the original file name (because the file name is often the value of an important variable).
3. Combine all tables into a single table.