---
layout: post
title: 2019.01.08 News
categories: Mobility
---

1. [苹果无人驾驶计划的真相](https://www.huxiu.com/article/280141.html)

2. [等了5年，马斯克的梦想终于在中国落地，还上了《新闻联播》](https://36kr.com/p/5171066.html)

    1月7日下午，特斯拉中国超级工厂（一期）奠基仪式将于上海临港两港西大道、正嘉路路口交界处的特斯拉项目现场举行。

    早在2014年1月，特斯拉首席执行官埃隆·马斯克在接受中国媒体采访时就表示，特斯拉计划将在中国兴建生产车厂，供应中国需求。

    随后，马斯克在2015年来华时再次提出了在中国设立工厂的想法，其后，重庆、苏州、上海、广州、武汉等地便相继传出特斯拉建厂消息，但最终都遭到了特斯拉官方的否认。

3. [Amazon is getting more serious about Alexa in the car with Telenav deal](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/amazon-is-getting-more-serious-about-alexa-in-the-car/)

    Amazon  today announced a significant partnership with Telenav,  a connected car and location-based services provider. As part of the collaboration, Amazon’s voice assistant, Alexa, will now be part of Telenav’s in-car navigation systems.

4. [China’s Baidu says its answer to Alexa is now on 200M devices](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/baidu-dueros-200-million-devices/)

    A Chinese voice assistant has been rapidly gaining ground in recent months. DuerOS, Baidu’s answer to Amazon’s Alexa, reached over 200 million devices, China’s top search engine announced on its Weibo official account last Friday.

5. [Audi spins out Holoride to put VR in every car](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/audi-spins-out-holoride-to-put-vr-in-every-car/)


    “Car entertainment today is limited, you have small screens, people get sick. Here we’re expanding this potential,” Profendiner told TechCrunch before a demo at CES 2019. “We wanted to create something that benefitted from moving.”

    TechCrunch experienced what this VR future in the car might look and feel like. And it didn’t make either participant sick or nauseous. Part of the magic is that what users view through their VR headsets is matched with the movement of the vehicle. 

6. [Torc Robotics and Transdev are launching autonomous shuttles to deliver people to public transit](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/torc-robotics-ces/)

    Self-driving technology company Torc Robotics  is partnering with Transdev, the public transportation giant, to deploy fully autonomous electric shuttles designed to provide free connections to existing transit like trains and buses.

7. [Audi, Mobileye, Waymo, other top automakers unite to spread the self-driving gospel](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/audi-mobileye-waymo-other-top-automakers-unite-to-spread-the-self-driving-gospel/)

    A number of major automakers, technology companies and organizations with a stake in autonomous vehicles, including Audi,  Aurora,  Cruise, GM, Mobileye,  Nvidia, Toyota, Waymo and Zoox has formed a coalition to spread the word about advanced vehicle technologies and self-driving vehicles. Their message: this tech can transform transportation and make it safer and more sustainable.

    The Partners for Automated Vehicle Education, or PAVE, coalition was announced Monday at CES 2019 in Las Vegas. The aim of PAVE is educate the public and policymakers about the potential of automated vehicles.

    The group wants to educate the everyday consumer as well. So, it plans to sponsor hands-on workshops in partnership with SAE International to give people the chance to see, touch and feel developing AV technology.

    It will also hold policy workshops in partnership with academic institutions such as Stanford University’s Center for Automotive Research to help policymakers understand AVs and their potential. 

8. [Robot delivery dogs deployed by self-driving cars are coming](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/robot-delivery-dogs-deployed-by-self-driving-cars-are-coming/)

    Let’s hope you’re not afraid of dogs, because if Continental gets its way, autonomous robot dogs are going to be delivering your packages. At the Consumer Electronics Show today, Continental unveiled its Black Mirror-esque vision for how driverless vehicles can autonomously deploy bots to facilitate last-mile deliveries.

9. [Uber’s IPO may not be as eye-popping as we expected](https://techcrunch.com/2019/01/07/ubers-ipo-may-not-be-as-eye-popping-as-we-expected/)

    Uber  is expected to raise $10 billion later this year in one of the largest U.S. initial public offerings in history. The float will value the ride-hailing giant somewhere between $76 billion — the valuation it garnered with its last private financing — and $120 billion — a sky-high figure assigned by Wall Street bankers that’s had even early Uber investors scratching their heads.

    A new report from The Information pegs Uber’s initial market cap at $90 billion. To develop the estimate, the site analyzed undisclosed documents Uber provided creditors in 2017 “in which the company projected it would double net revenue to $14.2 billion by 2019,” ran revenue multiples and compared Uber to GrubHub, which investors say is the business’s closest comparison.

10. [We took a trip in a self-driving car and it was delightfully boring](https://www.theinquirer.net/inquirer/feature/3068839/we-took-a-trip-in-a-self-driving-car-and-it-was-delightfully-boring)

    After a couple of minutes, though, the novelty wore off, because when technology works as it should, it's delightfully boring. This is exactly the response Aptiv is looking for, too, telling us that the public's often-skewed perception of autonomous vehicles - such as my dad's - is one of the biggest obstacles the industry faces. 

    Overall, the entire 15-minute ride was exceptionally smooth and there was no sudden and unnecessary braking, which Aptiv tells us wouldn't have been the case in one of its last-gen vehicles demoed at 2018's CES. Although I'm usually a nervous passenger, I've never felt safer on Las Vegas' frantic roads; the robo-car performed as well, if not arguably better than any human would in the same situation: extra cautious, considerate and aware. 

11. [PAVE](https://pavecampaign.org/about/)