---
layout: post
title: 2019.03.12 News
categories: Mobility
---

1. [Report: Google’s Waymo seeks outside investment and a sky-high valuation](https://techcrunch.com/2019/03/11/report-googles-waymo-seeks-outside-investment-and-a-sky-high-valuation/)

    > Alphabet’s self-driving vehicle subsidiary Waymo  may raise outside capital for the first time at a valuation “at least several times” that of Cruise, the General Motors-owned autonomous vehicle business worth nearly $15 billion, according to a report published by The Information on Monday.

    > Waymo, years ago, was valued at $4.5 billion, though analysts claim it could surpass a valuation as high as $175 billion based on future revenue estimates. For context, a valuation north of $100 billion puts Waymo significantly ahead of Uber, Tesla, GM and Ford.

    > According to estimates, Waymo could book $114 billion in revenue in 2030.

    Drive.ai在找投资，连Waymo也开始寻找外部投资了，是不是代表真的可能有些问题？

2. [GM Cruise snags Dropbox HR head to hire at least 1,000 engineers by end of year](https://techcrunch.com/2019/03/11/gm-cruise-snags-dropbox-hr-head-to-hire-1000-engineers/)

    > GM Cruise plans to hire hundreds of employees over the next nine months, doubling its engineering staff, TechCrunch has learned. It’s an aggressive move by the autonomous vehicle technology company to double its size as it pushes to deploy a robotaxi service by the end of the year. Arden Hoffman, who helped scale Dropbox,  will leave the file-sharing and storage company to head up human resources at Cruise.

    Cruise大面积招人

3. [Self-Driving Trucks Hitting the Roads in China Using FABU Technology](http://insideunmannedsystems.com/self-driving-trucks-hitting-the-roads-in-china-using-fabu-technology/)

    > FABU first partnered with the companies in November, and Deppon Express then began testing Level 4 autonomous driving trucks in China’s Zhejiang Province, a heavily populated area.

    > The trucks averaged 40-mile daily round trips along three routes during the tests, with one of those routes passing through 50 intersections—26 of which were controlled by traffic lights. They operated both during the day and night, on highways, through tunnels and along residential roads. The tests were conducted in winter, meaning the trucks also had to navigate through challenging weather conditions such as rain, snow and fog.

    FABU是何晓飞创办的，何晓飞是之前滴滴研究院院长。