---
layout: post
title: 2019.02.05 News
categories: Mobility
---

1. [VW’s Electrify America will use Tesla battery packs to lower charging costs](https://techcrunch.com/2019/02/04/vws-electrify-america-will-use-tesla-battery-packs-to-lower-charging-costs/)

    Electrify America, the entity set up by Volkswagen as part of its settlement with U.S. regulators over its diesel emissions cheating scandal, plans to install Tesla Powerpack battery systems at more than 100 of its electric vehicle charging stations this year.

    Electrify America aims to use the Tesla Powerpacks to offset the cost of charging for customers. Owners of electric vehicles face high costs if they charge their vehicles during peak demand hours. The Tesla Powerpack battery systems store energy drawn from the grid during off-peak hours. That stored energy can then be used during peak demand hours when charging costs are higher. Each site will consist of a 210 kW battery system with roughly 350 kWh of capacity, according to Electrify America.

    看法：电动车领域不仅仅是车的改变，也是其他配套设施的改变。特斯拉也许在充电技术上还有机会。

2. [Tesla’s $218M Maxwell acquisition aims to give its batteries a boost](https://techcrunch.com/2019/02/04/teslas-maxwell-acquisition-aims-to-gives-its-batteries-a-boost/)

    Tesla has acquired energy storage company Maxwell Technologies in an all-stock deal valued at $218 million, a deal aimed at helping the electric automaker improve its batteries and lower costs as more competitors enter the market.

    Maxwell Technologies’ primary focus has been on ultracapacitors — energy storage devices that can charge and discharge rapidly, perform at a wide range of temperatures and have high power density and long operational life. In December, the company sold its high-voltage battery product line to Renaissance Investment Foundation for $55.1 million in cash and up to $15 million in potential future milestone payments.

    看法：特斯拉布局充电技术。