---
layout: post
title: Knowledge Graph Embedding - A Survey of Approaches and Applications
categories: Analytics
---

Wang Q, Mao Z, Wang B, et al. Knowledge graph embedding: A survey of approaches and applications[J]. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2017, 29(12): 2724-2743.

* TOC
{:toc}

## KG and KG embedding

A KG is a multi-relational graph composed of entities (nodes) and relations (different types of edges). Each edge is represented as a triple of the form (head entity, relation, tail entity), also called a fact, indicating that two entities are connected by a specific relation, e.g., (AlfredHitchcock, DirectorOf, Psycho). 

Knowledge graph (KG) embedding is to embed components of a KG including entities and relations into continuous vector spaces, so as to simplify the manipulation while preserving the inherent structure of the KG.

## KG embedding with facts alone

A typical KG embedding technique generally consists of
three steps: 

(i) representing entities and relations, The first step specifies the form in which entities and relations are represented in a continuous vector space. Entities are usually represented as vectors, Relations are typically taken as operations in the vector space, which can be represented as vectors [14], [15], matrices [16], [18], tensors [19], multivari- ate Gaussian distributions [45], or even mixtures of Gaus- sians [46].

(ii) defining a scoring function, and 

(iii) learning entity and relation representations.

We roughly categorize such embedding techniques into
two groups: translational distance models and semantic match- ing models. The former use distance-based scoring functions, and the latter similarity-based ones.

### Translational Distance Models

#### TransEand Its Extensions

TransE. TransE [14] is the most representative translational distance model. It represents both entities and relations as vectors in the same space, say Rd. Given a fact ðh; r; tÞ, the relation is interpreted as a translation vector r so that the embedded entities h and t can be connected by r with low error, i.e., h þ r ? t when ðh; r; tÞ holds.

TransH

TransR

TransD

#### Gaussian Embeddings

Some recent works take into account their uncertainties, and model them as random variables [45], [46]. KG2E [45] represents entities and relations as random vectors drawn from multi- variate Gaussian distributions.

#### Other Distance Models

Unstructured model (UM) [56] is a naive version of TransE by setting all r ¼ 0, leading to a scoring function.

### Semantic Matching Models

#### RESCAL and Its Extensions

#### Matching with Neural Networks

### Model Training

#### Training under Open World Assumption

#### Training under Closed World Assumption


## Model Comparison 